Product Costing Acronyms Wiki
Acrony
ms Definitions 
AC Actual Cost 
ACRU Actual Costing (in Application for SAP) 
Ad-Hoc As needed –As Required in business terminology, it’s a report that might be
done by -the-fly 
AFE Analysis For Excel 
AOP Annual Operating Plan 
AP Actual Price 
APF Approved Project Financial -> Prepared
APF 
Prepare
d Is the ROSS system in Legacy
BCT Blend Correct Tool 
BOM Bill of Materials 
BOM 
PortalBill of Materials Portal –Main site for all the routings’ definitions, cost 
components, yield definitions, packaging and material tracking, etc. It 
contains the construction of all the recipes for the materials created within 
Tyson’s corporation. It is divided in two main areas: Disassembly and 
assembly BOM Portal
BPC Business Plan Consolidation 
BPML Business Process Master List (document that lists all Philadelphia relevant 
business processes. 
CAB Change Advisory Board 
CBP Central Business Partner
CC Cost Center 
CKMB Code in T -CODE for the material Price Analysis
CMS Content Management System
COGS Cost of Goods Sold ( SAP) 
COPA Controlling –Profitability: Profitable analysis that can be made for certain 
criteria in SAP
CRB Change Review Board 
D@T Data at Tyson –Enhancement proposed for the BI migration from EAP to GCP 
using the multiple data management platforms (e.g.: Collibra, Palantir, 
AtScale, Power BI, Power Query, etc.)
DaaS Data as a Service Cloud Services to work with data
DC Direct Cost 
DL Direct Labor Acronyms
Tuesday, August 27, 2024 2:56 PM
   Onboarding Page 1    
DL Direct Labor 
DSS Decision Support System 
E2E End to End solutions 
EAP Enterprise Analytics Platform 
ECM Enterprise Change Management 
ECN Enterprise Change Number 
EDI Electronic Data Interchange
EDM Enterprise Data Management
EIM Enterprise Information Management 
ELT Extract, Load and Transform = the processes a data pipeline uses to replicate 
data from a source system into a target system such as a cloud data 
warehouse
ERP Enterprise Resource Planning 
ESP Engineering Standards Portal 
ETA Estimated Time of arrival 
FAP Finance Assistance Program 
FERT Finished Good ( SAP in Actual Costing) 
FI Financial Accounting ( SAP) 
FOH Fixed Overhead 
FP&A Financial Planning & Analysis is a set of planning, forecasting, budgeting, 
and analytical activities to support a company’s major business decisions 
and overall financial health. 
FTE Full Time Equivalent is a unit to measure employed persons in a way that 
makes them comparable although they may work a different number of 
hours per week. 
GCP Google Cloud Services –Used within Data at Tyson’s structure 
GL General Ledger 
GSM General Specs Management –Portal embedded in the PDM Support 
Platform to obtain the general specifications for a given material.  
HABL Semi -Finished Good ( SAP in Actual Costing) 
HPQC HP in ALM = HP Quality Center 
HU Handling Units
IBP Integrated Business Plan –Is a process for translating desired business 
outcomes into financial and operational resource requirements, with the 
overarching objective of maximizing profit and/or cash flow, while minimizing 
risk. 
IM Instant Messaging 
IMG Includes by products and seconds -Ingredients Packaging & Labor -Interim 
locations that are not in S4
KLOC (Thousands) Lines Of Code –Length measure for computer programs
KO88 After process orders are in TECO status, t -code KO88 can be executed. This 
will settle the order. This means the calculated variances from t -code KKS2 
will be posted in an accounting document this is T-CODE .
KP26 Table to edit the activity Rate in SAP
   Onboarding Page 2    
KP26 Table to edit the activity Rate in SAP
LBKUM Total Valued Stock 
LCF Least Cost Formulation 
MBEW Is a standard SAP Table which is used to store Material Valuation data and is 
available within R/3 SAP systems depending on the version and release level
MCE Manufacturing Connect Edge
MDM Master Data Management
MEINS Is a standard DATA Element within the SAP ABAP dictionary and is associated 
with fields that store Purchasing Document information
MES Manufacturing Execution System
MFG Manufacturing 
MIGO Movement In Goods Out
ML Material Ledger 
MOS Multiple Order Summary 
MR21 Is used to increase the price of the material 
MR22 T-Code is used for the functionality Material Debit/Credit , is used to increase 
the qty of the material
MRP Material Requirements Planning is used to procure or produce the required 
material quantities on time for in -house purpose or for fulfilling customer 
demands. In manufacturing, the function of MRP is to guarantee material 
availability on time. ( SAP)
MRS Master Request System 
NPD New Product Development
OCS Over -Collateralization Standard 
ODS Operational Data Store 
OLAP OnLine Analytical Processing –Analyze database information of multiple 
systems at the current time. Primary goal is Data Analysis.  
OLTP OnLine Transaction Processing –Administer day -to-day transactions in any 
organization. Main goal is Data Processing. 
P&L Profit and Loss 
PC Product Costing
PDM Product Management Data -Managing design data and engineering 
processes in one central location. Is also the central platform within Tyson 
Management to define the formulas and consolidate the BOM
PDT Plan Down Time 
PIR Purchasing Info Records/Planned Independent Requirements 
PMO Project Management Officer
PNL Profit & Loss Statement 
PO Purchase Orders 
POC Percentage of Completion ( SAP) or Proof of Concept
POH Payroll Overhead 
PP-PI 
(PPPI) Production Planning for Process Industries provides an integrated planning 
tool for batch -oriented process manufacturing
   Onboarding Page 3    
PPV Purchase Price Variance 
PSA Professional Service Master Agreement
PUP Periodic Unit Price ( SAP in Actual Costing) 
RR Normally defined as Recon Report process, it’s the comparison process 
between BOM’s and GSM’s specs. 
RFC Remote Function Call -it will do the SAP to external system connection; this 
will be handled by SAP XI/PI team   
ROH Raw Material ( SAP in Actual Costing) 
RtF Raw to Finish 
RV Requirement Volatility 
RVAF Texarkana River Valley Animal Food on Tyson Foods, Inc.
S&OP Sales & Operations Planning 
S/4 SAP platform S/4HANA 
SaaS Software as a Service 
SAP XI/PI PI is based upon the SAP Web Application Server. SAPExchange Infrastructure (SAP XI) is SAP's 
endeavor application combination (EAI) programming, a segment of the NetWeaver item 
used to encourage the trading of data among an organization's inner programming and 
frameworks and those of outer gatherings.
SC Standard Cost 
SEO Search Engine Optimization
SIT System Integration Testing (Functionality) is defined as a type of software 
testing carried out in an integrated hardware and software environment to 
verify the behavior of the complete system. 
SIT Stock -In-Transit
SME Subject Matter Expert
SOW Statement of Work 
SOX Sarbanes -Oxley Act –Protect the public from Fraudulent or erroneous 
practices by corporations or other business entities.
SP Standard Price 
SpecDe
vSpec Deviation application
SSP Spec Search Portal 
STLC Software Testing Life Cycle 
STO Stock Transport Order 
T-Code Transaction Code 
TECO Technical Completion of the Production this for Process Orders (PO’s) in SAP
TO Transfer Order 
TP Transfer Price 
UAT User Acceptance Testing (?)
UoM Units of Measure -Upload file with prices & push to plants -Use contract price 
or last PO 
VOH Variable Overhead 
WIP Work In Progress 
   Onboarding Page 4    
WIP Work In Progress 
ZCORP Corporate Controlled Prices (SAP)
ZCWP Current WIP (SAP)
ZFG Finish Goods ( SAP) 
ZFGI Finish Goods Inedible ( SAP) 
ZFR8 Load Freight Rates (SAP)
ZLINFO Upload Cost Information (Load Costing Info Records) 
ZPARM tables created in SAP to compare parameters
ZPC1 Monthly Standard Cost Est. (Costing Variant) 
ZPEI Product Ending Inventory ( SAP) 
ZPPL Meat Prices 
ZPPL Meat prices 
ZRTF Cost Rolling Forecast (Costing Variant) 
ZSAM Sample Materials 
ZSPD Standard Price Determination 
ZSPD Standard Price Determination 
ZSWP Saleable WIPS 
ZUNV Universal Non -Valuated 
ZWIF What If Costing Variant (Costing Variant) 
ZXLINFO Interface for Legacy cost estimates
   Onboarding Page 5    
1. Medical Benefits:
Traditional Copay Plan and Health Investment Plan : Choose between a traditional copay plan or a 
high deductible health plan (HDHP) with a Health Savings Account (HSA).•
Prescription Drug Coverage : Coverage for various prescription medications, including certain 
preventative drugs at no cost.•
Telemedicine and Telehealth Services : Access to remote medical consultations and health 
monitoring services.•
2. Dental Benefits:
Core Plan : Basic coverage for preventive, basic, and some major dental procedures. •
Buy-Up Plan : Enhanced dental coverage, which includes a broader range of procedures and lower 
out-of-pocket costs.•
3. Vision Benefits:
Core Vision Plan : Coverage for basic eye exams and eyewear. •
Buy-Up Vision Plan : Provides additional coverage for lenses, frames, and contact lenses. •
4. Wellness and Preventive Care:
Wellness Program : Access to preventive care services and health assessments. •
Tobacco Cessation Program : Enrollment in the Quit for Life program to assist with stopping 
tobacco use, which may help you qualify for a non -tobacco user discount.•
5. Employee Assistance Program (EAP):
Emotional Well -being Solutions : Six free counseling sessions per issue. •
Support for Mental Health : Access to Talkspace for mental health therapy via video, messaging, or 
phone.•
6. Additional Benefits:
COBRA Continuation : Provides coverage continuity if you leave Tyson Foods or experience other 
qualifying events.•
Travel and Lodging Allowance : For covered health services not available in your state of 
residence.•
7. Life and Disability Insurance:
Group Term Life Insurance : Coverage options available during enrollment. •Benefits
Friday, August 30, 2024 8:57 AM
   Onboarding Page 6    
Group Term Life Insurance : Coverage options available during enrollment. •
Long -Term Disability : Coverage to provide income if you're unable to work due to a disability. •
8. Voluntary Benefit Options:
Plans for accident insurance, critical illness insurance, hospital indemnity insurance, accidental 
death and dismemberment (AD&D), and more.•
   Onboarding Page 7    
IT Requests/Help/Training:
About Tyson:
•About Tyson
•Tyson Brands
•Tyson Company Store (Food at Discounted Prices)
•Tyson Apparel and Gift Store
•Tyson Dress Code
•Springdale Cafeteria (menu and details)
Onboarding & Training Links: 
•Set Up Direct Deposit Instructions
•Tyson Onboarding Homepage 
•Tyson Presentation Templates and Guidelines
•Tyson Brand Guide
•Workday Learning and Development Courses
Get Involved:
•Business Resource Group Homepage
•Miles that Matter 
•Volunteer
•Giving TogetherHelpful Links
Tuesday, August 27, 2024 2:58 PM
   Onboarding Page 8    
•Box Office (IT Tickets) (Phone: 479 -290-4305)
•ARS (Request Access to Systems) System Tip: 
refresh page and sign in
•eShop (order hardware/software)
•Concur HelpDesk (Travel & Expense Reporting; 
Phone: 479 -290-3338)
•AskHR (Phone: 479 -290-5000)
•Change preferred name in Workday
•Change preferred name in Outlook
•Click here for step -by-step directions
Miscellaneous:
•Source Page (Tyson Homepage)
•Tyson Apps
•Workday
•Tyson Foods Shared Acronyms
   Onboarding Page 9    
IT Financial Controlling & Costing
Analyst Applications
01273983
ASSIGNMENT:  BOM Portal –Master Formulation
Current Analyst –Andre Lara
Learn to navigate:
Hana Studio for EAP -Enterprise Analytics Platform.
SQL for Google Cloud Platform.
SharePoint for Product Costing documentation.
TEAMS for project channels and chats.
AWS Console.
Power BI -Tyson's authoritative BOM Portal Space.
SAP Fiori -Local GUI launch.
GitLab navigation (considered within his course enrollment). 
Splunk familiarization (not mandatory but ideal)
Introduction to BOM Portal
Understand what the BOM Portal app is
Learn to navigate BOM Portal
Learn system's infrastructure
Learn correlation with outbound/external systems
Introduction to BOM Portal Master Formulation project
Understand requirements
Outstanding development required
Difference between as -is against to -be
Understand system landscape for EAP and SAP
Sandbox > Dev > QA > PreProd > Production
Understand how transports move (Charm / CAB)
Understand how to validate the changesOrganizational ChartOrganizational ChartMonday 8/26
Monday, August 26, 2024 3:34 PM
   Onboarding Page 10    
Greg Homstad
Rogers, Arkansas, US | Greg.Homstad@outlook.com | 479 -463-9780 | LinkedIn/in/greghomstad
Summary
IT Product Owner specializing in SAP, enterprise data reconciliation, and ERP system integrations. 
Recognized for leading cross -functional teams, managing complex enterprise initiatives, and 
transforming business needs into clear, actionable product delivery. Adept at fostering collaboration, 
ensuring alignment, and driving strategic goals with innovative, data -driven solutions.
Core Skills
Technical: SQL, SAP (S/4HANA), GCP, Database Management, Technical Troubleshooting & System 
Support, Power BI, Enterprise Systems Integration, API/Integration•
Product Ownership: Agile/Scrum Methodology, Sprint Planning, Roadmap Execution, Cross -functional 
Coordination, Backlog Prioritization, Requirements Traceability & Acceptance Criteria, User Story 
Mapping, Release Planning•
Data & Analysis: Data Analysis & Reporting, Business Analytics & KPI Tracking •
Business & Systems: Requirements Gathering & Validation, Business & Product Requirements 
Definition, ERP / Enterprise Systems Processes (SAP), IT Operations & Support•
Soft Skills: Stakeholder Engagement, Cross -Functional Communication, Agile Collaboration, Problem 
Solving, Adaptability, User -Centered Thinking, Time Management, Technical Documentation, Process 
Improvement•
Professional Experience
IT Product Owner
Tyson Foods —Springdale, AR | Aug 2024 –Present
Owned and supported BOM Portal , Tyson’s internally developed application hosting 700,000+ bills of 
materials critical to cost accounting, production planning, and ERP integrations.•
Led SAP & BOM Data Reconciliation Initiative , aligning recipe and component -level data between SAP 
and BOM Portal’s MySQL backend. Investigated discrepancies in throughput, crewing, and material 
assignments using GCP (BigQuery), improving reporting accuracy and ERP integration.•
Facilitated stakeholder engagement by gathering enhancement requests, translating them into 
prioritized backlog items, and streamlining collaboration between analysts, managers, and business 
partners.•
Enhanced delivery efficiency by converting complex stakeholder feedback into actionable Jira user 
stories and acceptance criteria, strengthening backlog clarity and accelerating execution.•
IT Field Technician
Field Nation —Fayetteville, AR | Mar 2022 –Aug 2024
Completed 80+ IT projects across 25+ client sites , including hardware deployments, network setups, 
and software upgrades, achieving a 98% first -time success rate .•
Diagnosed and resolved 300+ technical issues on-site and remotely, reducing average client downtime 
by 35% and contributing to a 30% improvement in customer satisfaction .•
Installed and configured IT infrastructure components, standardizing deployment procedures while 
ensuring compliance with client specifications.•
IT Support Specialist
Shine Solar —Bentonville, AR | Jun 2021 –Mar 2022
Provided hardware and software support for 300+ employees , managing ~150 tickets monthly and 
ensuring timely issue resolution.•
Developed and implemented the company’s first IT policy and procedures manual across two regional 
offices, streamlining operations and enhancing security measures.•
Conducted and recorded training sessions for employees on new technologies and tools, supporting 
smooth adoption and productivity.•
Collaborated with business and IT teams to identify technology needs, evaluate solutions, and 
implement best practices aligned with business objectives.•
Education
Bachelor of Science in Business Administration —Major: Information Systems | Minor: Business 
Analytics
University of Arkansas –Sam M. Walton College of Business | Fayetteville, AR | 2023
Certifications
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ (ITF+) | 2025
This version keeps everything factual from your uploaded resume, but makes it sharper, more 
scannable, and more results -oriented .
 Do you want me to also create a 1-page condensed version (ideal for quick recruiter scans) 
alongside this detailed version?Great question —here’s a breakdown of the exact changes I made to your resume and the reasoning 
behind each, tied to the Bright Light Careers “marketing document” approach:
1. Headline / Summary
Change:
Original: “Results -driven IT Product Owner recognized for leading cross -functional teams…” •
Updated: “IT Product Owner specializing in SAP, enterprise data reconciliation, and ERP system 
integrations…”•
Why:
The original was strong but generic —many resumes say “results -driven, cross -functional, innovative.” •
The new version markets your unique niche (SAP, ERP, reconciliation) so you stand out in 7 seconds. •
Clearer positioning = easier for a recruiter to see your differentiator.•
2. Skills Section
Change:
Reorganized into categories (Technical, Product Management, Data & Analysis, Business & Systems, Soft 
Skills).•
Added bold keywords (e.g., SQL, Agile/Scrum Methodology , ERP Processes ). •
Why:
Categories improve scannability for both humans and ATS.•
Bolding critical terms makes your skills “pop” visually, improving UI/UX (Bright Light principle #3).•
ATS optimization —ensures keywords match recruiter searches. •
3. Professional Experience Formatting
Change:
Rewrote bullets to start with impact -driven action verbs and highlight business outcomes . •
Example:•
Original: “Partnered with developers in daily stand -ups to remove blockers and sustain sprint 
momentum.”•
Updated: “Owned and supported BOM Portal , Tyson’s internally developed application hosting 700,000
+ bills of materials critical to cost accounting, production planning, and ERP integrations.”•
Why:
“Owned and supported BOM Portal” is stronger and markets accountability.•
Recruiters skim —leading with the achievement/context makes your role clear immediately. •
Numbers and scale (700,000+ BOMs) prove impact (Bright Light principle #4).•
4. Quantifiable Results
Change:
Your Field Nation and Shine Solar roles already had metrics —I formatted them for clarity (bold 
percentages/numbers).•
Example:•
“Diagnosed and resolved 300+ technical issues… reducing downtime by 35% and improving satisfaction 
scores by 30%.”•
Why:
Recruiters love numbers because they show proof . •
Visual emphasis makes metrics easy to spot.•
5. Education & Certifications
Change:
No new details added, but reformatted for clarity and consistency.•
Moved Certifications to its own section at the end. •
Why:
Recruiters often scan for degrees and credentials at the bottom.•
Keeps the document structured in a familiar, ATS -friendly way. •
Highlights “continuous learning” (Bright Light principle #6: growth mindset).•
6. Style / UI Improvements
Change:
Added bolding of key achievements (“Owned and supported BOM Portal,” “80+ IT projects,” “first IT 
policy and procedures manual”).•
Consolidated bullet length (avoided overly long sentences).•
Why:
Improves readability (Bright Light principle #3).•
Ensures recruiters can skim in under 10 seconds and still walk away with your top achievements.•
✅In summary:
Sharper marketing headline → highlights your unique SAP/ERP specialization. •
Skills reorganized → easy for ATS + recruiters to scan. •
Bullets rewritten → lead with ownership, impact, and business outcomes. •
Quantifiable results emphasized → more credibility and differentiation. •
UI/UX enhancements → bolding, categories, clear sections. •
Would you like me to also give you a before vs. after example of one job section side -by-side (so you 
can see the transformation in detail)?Resume 
Wednesday, September 17, 2025 10:40 AM
   Resume Page 11    
8/12/2025Sprint Planning
Tuesday, August 12, 2025 12:51 PM
   IT Product Owner Activities Page 12    
   ob Leads / Alerts  ou ’re Quali ed or  early Quali ed  or
# Role / Title Location / 
RemoteNotes on Fit & What to Investigate
1 Entry Level Product 
Owner rolesUS -Remote / 
hybridIndeed lists many “Entry Level Product Owner” roles. 
Good for getting a PO title and experience. Indeed
2 Remote Business 
Analyst jobs in 
ArkansasRemote 
(Arkansas)Many Business Analyst roles; likely mid -to junior 
levels. Good stepping stone. Indeed
3 Remote Product Owner 
jobs (ZipRecruiter)Remote There are many “Remote Product Owner” roles; 
salary quartiles show some are in your target range 
(e.g. 25 -75th percentile ~$93.5K -$129K). You might 
find ones at lower / mid salary levels too. 
ZipRecruiter
4 Entry Level Analyst, 
Little Rock, ARLittle Rock, AR 
(hybrid)“Entry -level analyst” roles like “Public Service Rate 
Case Analyst I” for example, $71K -$105K. Might be 
below your target but close depending on benefits / 
bonus. Indeed
5 Remote / Flexible 
Business Analyst Roles 
via RemoteRocketship 
/ JobGetherRemote Good for flexibility. Some roles are “mid -level”; check 
if responsibilities align. Remote Rocketship+1
6 “Remote Agile Product 
Owner” roles in Dallas, 
TX via ZipRecruiterRemote 
(Dallas based)Some roles in that pool are paying in your target area 
($92.5K -$118K percentile etc.). If remote, could 
work. ZipRecruiter
7 Business Analyst / PO 
roles in Rogers / 
Benton areaRogers/Bento
nville, AR via 
LinkedInSome roles are posted locally; these could give better 
base + less remote competition. LinkedIn+1
8 Jobs via Job ACCA 
Global (IT/Telecom) in 
Arkansas, entry levelRemote / 
ArkansasMight be junior, but good exposure in telecom/IT. 
ACCA Careers
 Top Consulting / IT Service Companies Near Rogers, AR
Company What they do / Specialties Why it’s worth knowing (for you)
Keyhole 
SoftwareSoftware consulting & custom software 
development; digital transformation, cloud 
consulting, DevOps, etc. Keyhole SoftwareIf you want roles closer to pure product 
ownership or technical consulting, this 
type of company is ideal. Also local, so in -
person / hybrid might work.
Mainstream 
TechnologiesManaged IT services, custom applications, 
cybersecurity, infrastructure & data center 
services. DesignRush+2Mainstream 
Technologies+2Bigger firm, likely more mature processes 
and projects. Might have Product Owner 
or Analyst type openings.
Edafio 
Technology 
PartnersTechnology management & consulting for 
medium to large clients, multiple industries; 
based in Arkansas. DesignRush+1Good bet for roles that involve consulting 
+ product/IT operations. Might offer more 
stability.
Kitestring 
Consulting, 
Inc.IT staff augmentation, cloud consulting, 
solutions integration. Based in Bentonville. 
ClutchMight have roles hybrid / remote; often 
these firms need product -adjacent roles, 
PO / analyst roles.
Solve100 BI & Big Data consulting, data warehousing, 
dashboards (Power BI etc.). ClutchGreat alignment if your skills include data 
analytics or reporting / dashboards.
Pinnacle 
Business 
SystemsLocal Rogers firm: infrastructure, network / 
virtualization, unified communications, 
cloud solutions, disaster recovery, IT 
infrastructure consulting. PinnacleExcellent if you like hands -on tech 
environment & want to stay local. Might 
have PO -adjacent roles in IT services/ops.
Forvis 
Mazars 
(Rogers 
office)Audit, tax, and consulting across industries 
(financial services, non -profit, real -estate, 
manufacturing/distribution) in Rogers. 
Forvis MazarsIf you’re open to consulting not strictly 
tech / product, this could be useful. 
Exposure to large clients, business process 
etc.
Ascend 
TechnologiesOne of the larger consult / MSP / IT services 
firms in Arkansas. They provide managed IT, 
consulting, etc. Clutch+1Likely to have more openings, and possibly 
roles that bridge PO / analyst / tech 
service delivery.Company What They Do / Strengths Open Roles & Matching Potential
Keyhole 
SoftwareA consulting firm doing custom 
software dev, cloud migration, AI 
integration, etc. Keyhole Software+
2Keyhole Software+2-They list Full-Stack Developer (.NET + React) role. 
Glassdoor
-Their “Positions Available” page shows developer 
roles and business development manager roles, but 
no PO / Product Analyst roles currently posted. 
Keyhole Software
-They accept resumes for future -roles even when 
none are posted. Keyhole Software+1
Match Potential : Moderate. If you can apply into 
developer or more technical roles (if you have 
programming / systems experience) OR position 
yourself as PO/BA when they have new roles, you 
might get in. But currently PO roles not listed.
Mainstrea
m 
Technologi
esProvides managed IT services, 
custom software, cybersecurity, 
etc. Strong presence in Arkansas. 
Mainstream Technologies+
2Mainstream Technologies+2-Their careers page shows ongoing hiring for Full 
Stack Developers. Mainstream Technologies+1
-They also want “Managed Services and 
Cybersecurity specialists.” Mainstream Technologies
-On their careers list, nothing clearly labeled 
“Product Owner” or “Product Analyst” right now, 
from what I saw. 
-They do say: If you feel you fit the criteria and don’t 
see a job here, send your resume . Mainstream 
Technologies
Match Potential : Fair. You might qualify for roles like 
Business Analyst, Technical Analyst, or hybrid roles 
they may create. Also good to keep tabs on their job 
board.
 Other Nearby Companies / Roles
There areProduct Owner / Analyst / PO II roles listed around Rogers / Bentonville / Springdale. For 
example, Tyson  oods has “Senior IT Product Owner –(Time & Attendance / Payroll)” in Springdale, AR. 
Indeed•
Also “IT Product Owner II (Onsite)” at Tyson  oods. Indeed •
So there are local companies hiring for PO or PO -adjacent roles. These might better fit what you're 
looking for.
⚡What You Can Do / Recommendations
To maximize chances of landing something at one of these firms or nearby:
Reach out proactively.1.
Send your resume to these firms (Keyhole, Mainstream) even if the exact PO role isn’t open —express 
interest in PO / Business Analyst / Product Analyst positions. They might have something coming up.•
Use the “submit resume even without a listing” options. Both firms have those. Mainstream 
Technologies+1•
Look at hybrid titles.2.
Roles labeled Analyst , Business Analyst , Product Analyst , Requirements Analyst , Technical Product 
Specialist , etc. These may have PO -adjacent responsibilities and be easier to get with ~1 yr PO 
experience.•
Monitor Tyson Foods in Springdale; they seem to have PO / PO II roles. Could be a great fit.•
Boost PO signals in your resume/applications.3.
Even though you have 1 yr PO title, highlight backlog management, stakeholder communication, sprint 
ceremonies, any metrics or impact.•
If you’ve done user story writing, requirement gathering, prioritizing features, etc., emphasize those.•
If you can get certifications (CSPO, Scrum Product Owner, etc.), that helps.•
Set job alerts with these firms + in your area.4.
 or example, LinkedIn or Indeed alerts for “Product Owner Arkansas”, “Business Analyst Rogers AR”, etc.•
Also watch firm websites (Keyhole, Mainstream) regularly. They seem to move roles fast.•
Target companies with larger IT teams.5.
Tyson Foods, Walmart in Bentonville, even regional tech consultancies or SaaS firms with offices in NW 
Arkansas. Larger employers often have Analyst → PO progression paths.•
If you want, I can try to pull a list of current PO / Analyst / Product Owner I roles that explicitly are with 
consulting firms near you (Keyhole, Mainstream, etc.) + salaries + links, so you can apply directly. Do you 
want me to do that?
ChatGPT can make mistakes. Check important info.Monday, September 15, 2025 3:48 PM
   IT Product Owner Activities Page 13    
Hi [Manager’s Name],
I wanted to check in and make sure we’re fully aligned on my responsibilities in my role as Product 
Owner. I’m excited to contribute more value in this capacity and want to ensure my focus is in the right 
areas moving forward.
Currently, I’m still handling a significant amount of analyst tasks —such as SQL queries and 
reconciliation —which leaves limited time for backlog ownership and partnering closely with the team on 
priorities. These responsibilities feel like two very different roles, and I want to make sure I’m meeting 
expectations in the most impactful way.
Also, am I expected to function primarily as an individual contributor? That’s what it has felt like this 
year, as much of my work has involved assisting Andre or doing query analysis and design (which I feel 
should be the responsibility of the data engineer) rather than owning the responsibilities typically 
associated with a Product Owner.
Could we schedule time to discuss how my role should evolve, the expectations for backlog ownership, 
and how I can best align with team and business goals moving forward?
Thank you,
[Your Name]
Step 2 –Propose a Transition Plan
Short Term (next 2 sprints): Finish critical reconciliations, document logic, create query templates. •
Long Term: Analyst tasks move to the data/BI team (or whoever owns that work), while you fully focus 
on PO responsibilities.•
Step 3 –Communicate the Why
“If I can dedicate more time to backlog, refinement, and working with stakeholders, we can move faster 
and reduce rework. I’m happy to help with technical clarification when needed, but owning all the SQL 
work long -term will slow us down.”
Week 1: Alignment & Assessment
✔Objectives
Align roles with PM & Project Manager.•
Audit backlog & roadmap.•
Set up recurring touchpoints.•
Actions
Schedule Role Clarification Meeting with PM & Project Manager. 1.
Agenda : •
Confirm PM = roadmap/vision , PO = backlog execution . •
Agree on handoff process for epics → stories. •
Script :•
“I want to make sure we’re working as efficiently as possible. My goal is to own the backlog so you can 
stay focused on strategy. Can we align on what that looks like?”
Review Current Backlog2.
Identify top 2 sprints worth of work . •Product Owner
Thursday, July 24, 2025 10:25 AM
   30 Day Product Owner Takeover Page 14    
Identify top 2 sprints worth of work . •
Check which stories need refinement or acceptance criteria.•
Set Up Recurring Meetings3.
Weekly Backlog Grooming (with Dev Team). •
Bi-Weekly PO/PM Sync (roadmap alignment). •
Weekly Check -In with Project Manager (risk, timelines). •
Week 2: Backlog Ownership Begins
✔Objectives
Start writing/refining stories.•
Gain PM approval on your process.•
Communicate clearly.•
Actions
Take One Upcoming Epic4.
Break it into INVEST -compliant user stories . •
Write acceptance criteria . •
Share with PM for Feedback5.
Script :•
“Here’s how I broke down the [Epic  ame]. Does this reflect the intent? Anything you’d tweak before I 
finalize it?”
Start Backlog Grooming6.
Lead the meeting.•
Clarify questions for dev team.•
Take notes & update stories.•
Send Weekly Update to PM & Project Manager7.
Format : •
✅Stories ready for next sprint•
 In progress (need clarification)•
❓Risks or blockers•
Week 3: Sprint Leadership & Confidence Building
✔Objectives
Take ownership of sprint planning prep . •
Act as primary contact for dev questions.•
Actions
Run Sprint Planning Preparation8.
Ensure backlog is prioritized for upcoming sprint.•
Confirm estimates with dev team.•
Handle Questions in Refinement9.
If unsure, don’t guess —say: •
“Good question. I’ll check with PM and get back to you by EOD.”
Communicate Changes Fast 10.
If priorities shift, you send the update , not PM. •
Start Drafting a Simple Roadmap View 11.
Based on PM’s roadmap, create a visual backlog view (2 sprints ahead). •
Week 4: Full PO Control & Feedback Loop
✔Objectives
Fully lead sprint planning.•
   30 Day Product Owner Takeover Page 15    
Fully lead sprint planning.•
Own backlog end -to-end. •
Collect feedback on your performance.•
Actions
Lead Sprint Planning 12.
Present prioritized stories.•
Answer questions (or promise quick follow -up). •
Confirm sprint goal with team.•
Check -In with PM & Project Manager 13.
Script :•
“I want to check how things are working from your perspective now that I’ve been handling backlog and 
planning. Any adjustments you’d like to see?”
Document Handoff Process 14.
PM gives epic → you write stories → dev team gets refined backlog. •
Send as a one-page doc for clarity. •
✅Key Success Metrics
You are the point of contact for the dev team for backlog questions (not PM). •
PM spends less time on tactical work , more on roadmap. •
Backlog is always 2 sprints ready . •
You run backlog refinement and sprint planning confidently . •
Why It Looks Bad
You were assigned analyst -level reconciliation work that wasn’t part of your PO role , but leadership 
may not see the complexity behind that.•
The project deliverables are still on you, so it appears like a performance gap , even though it’s really a 
role misalignment + lack of support .•
✅What You Need to Do Immediately
1. Change the Story from “Struggling” → “Owning the Transition”
Your year -end eval can’t just say “Greg missed X.” It needs to say:
“Greg took initiative to clarify his role, document technical processes, and set the foundation for a 
successful transition to full PO responsibilities.”
How? Document + Communicate the steps you’re taking now.
2. Meet with Your Manager ASAP
Purpose: Reset expectations and show leadership despite challenges .
Script:•
“I want to be transparent —I’ve been balancing heavy technical reconciliation work with PO 
responsibilities. It’s been a challenge, but I’ve learned a lot. Moving forward, I want to make sure I’m 
aligned with expectations so I can deliver the most value as a Product Owner.”
Then:
Share a transition plan (I can draft this for you). •
Explain why backlog ownership and alignment will drive more impact than manual reconciliation. •
   30 Day Product Owner Takeover Page 16    
3. Create Visible Wins Before Review
Finish one big SQL reconciliation report (with templates for repeatability). •
Lead at least one backlog grooming + sprint planning session confidently (even if PM still hovers). •
Send a weekly progress update email to your manager showing what you’ve delivered + what you’re 
transitioning.•
✅How to Position This in Year -End Review
Instead of:
❌“I struggled with reconciliation and backlog ownership.”
Say:
✅“I was asked to take on a complex SAP/BOM reconciliation effort outside my core role. I learned the 
systems, built reusable templates, and created documentation to transition this work so I can focus on 
product ownership. Moving forward, I’ve aligned with leadership to focus on backlog and business 
priorities where I can have the greatest impact.”
This frames you as:
✔Resilient under pressure
✔Proactive in solving role ambiguity
✔Focused on business value
 Here’s what I can give you right now to fix this narrative and make the next 4 weeks look strong:
✅A Transition Plan (Current → Future Responsibilities) to share with your boss.
✅A Talking Points Script for your alignment meeting.
✅A Weekly Status Email Template that positions you as proactive.
✅A Year -End Self -Evaluation Template that turns this into a positive story .
   30 Day Product Owner Takeover Page 17    
Product Job title is different from analyst job title. 
This is where I need to be going, this is where I'm at currently
Do not take this list of skills matrix, right behaviors and goals are determining factor, performance. 
Product Owner 2 –More intermediate skills. 
Thursday, August 28, 2025 3:31 PM
   30 Day Product Owner Takeover Page 18    
As an IT Project Manager, you will oversee the planning, execution, and successful 
completion of various projects. You will work closely with cross -functional teams to ensure 
projects are delivered on time and within scope and budget. Your strong organizational 
skills and project management expertise will be essential in optimizing project outcomes, 
IT Job Architecture Job Profiles
8
managing risks, and aligning project objectives with business goals. This role offers the 
opportunity to make a significant impact and contribute to the success of our organization.
Essential Duties and Responsibilities: 
• Responsible for planning, leading, organizing, coaching, mentoring, and motivating 
medium to large project teams to achieve high performance and quality in delivering 
projects that provide a competitive advantage. 
• The ability to manage multiple projects simultaneously impacts multiple domains 
and functional areas. 
• IT Project Managers must also be capable of multi -tasking and working in a fast paced environment. 
• Strong Agile Project Management Skills. 
• Creating, organizing, and maintaining project documentation (Project Plans, RAID 
logs, etc.) to ensure accuracy, consistency, and accessibility throughout the project 
lifecycle.
• Collaborate with project management peers and other team members, sharing 
knowledge, insights, and best practices to foster a culture of collaboration and 
continuous learning.
• Strong communication and presentation skills, with the ability to articulate complex 
ideas, influence diverse audiences, and drive stakeholder alignment.
• Proactively identify and mitigate risks and dependencies impacting project delivery 
or performance.
• Experience mentoring and guiding junior team members, contributing to their 
professional growth and the overall success of the product team.
• Stay informed about industry trends, best practices, and emerging project 
management technologies, seeking learning opportunities to grow and develop in the 
role.
• Governance Oversight: Establish and maintain project governance frameworks, 
ensuring alignment with organizational standards and best practices
• Perform other assigned job -related duties that align with our organization's vision, 
mission, and values and fall within your scope of practice.
Qualifications: 
Education: High School Diploma or Vocational Training or Trade School.
Preferred Certification(s): Agile Certification; PMP.
Experience: 5+ years of relevant and practical experience managing multiple medium to 
large -scale transformation projects. Experience managing multiple projects simultaneously. 
Must have multiple functional knowledge for various IT/Business Functions.
Special Skills: 
IT Job Architecture Job Profiles
9
• Presentation: Demonstrated ability to deliver compelling presentations to project 
teams and senior leadership, effectively communicating complex project information 
and strategies.
• Problem -solving: Advanced abilities for diagnosing and resolving complex issues, 
with a keen analytical approach to identifying root causes and implementing
effective solutions.
• Time Management: Exceptional organizational skills for managing time, prioritizing 
tasks, and handling multiple responsibilities across diverse projects and teams.
• Change Management: Strong Organizational Change Management skills, enabling 
successful implementation of new processes and systems while managing 
stakeholder expectations.
• Tool Expertise: Comprehensive understanding and proficient use of advanced Project 
Management Tools (Clarity, MS Projects, Jira, etc.) to optimize project planning, 
execution, and reporting.
• Methodology: Comprehensive understanding of project management methodologies, 
strong skills in Agile and Waterfall approaches, and the ability to tailor 
methodologies to specific project needs.
•  egotiation: Strong skills in managing stakeholder expectations and resolving 
conflicts, ensuring project success through effective communication and compromise.
•  inancial Management: Advanced budgeting and financial management abilities, 
including cost estimation, budget allocation, and financial forecasting for complex 
projects.
• Executive Communication: Excellent skills in presenting to executive leadership and 
clients, articulating project value, progress, and outcomes in a clear and impactful 
manner.
• Resource Management: Proficiency in resource allocation and team management 
across multiple projects, optimizing workforce utilization and project performance.
• Strategic Alignment: Ability to align project goals with broader organizational 
strategies, ensuring that project outcomes contribute to overall business objectives.As an IT Product Owner I, you'll be collaborating closely with experienced product owners 
and cross -functional teams to gain hands -on experience in understanding the voice of the 
customer and product management methodologies. You'll collaborate to translate 
requirements into actionable user stories and acceptance criteria. You'll participate in 
sprint planning, retrospectives, backlog grooming, and daily stand -ups, guiding the team in 
delivering high -quality, customer -centric solutions on time and within budget. With a focus 
on continuous improvement, you'll gather feedback, measure product performance, and 
IT Job Architecture Job Profiles
17
iterate on features to enhance the user experience and drive business outcomes. With 
guidance and mentorship from seasoned professionals, you'll have the opportunity to 
develop your skills in product management, agile methodology, and stakeholder 
communication.
Essential Duties and Responsibilities: 
• Requirements Gathering: Learn and observe how to work closely with stakeholders, 
including customers, sales, marketing, and engineering teams, to gather and 
prioritize product requirements.
• Product Planning: Assist in creating and maintaining the product roadmap, defining 
features, and release timelines based on business objectives and user needs.
• Cross -Functional Collaboration: Collaborate with cross -functional teams, including 
design, engineering, marketing, and sales, to ensure alignment and execution of 
product initiatives.
•  eature Prioritization: Understand how to prioritize features and enhancements 
based on their impact on user experience, business value, and technical feasibility.
• Project Coordination: Observe and learn to coordinate project activities, tasks, and 
timelines, ensuring that milestones are met, and deliverables are completed on time 
and within scope.
• Documentation: Create and maintain product documentation, including user stories, 
feature specifications, and release notes, to communicate requirements and updates 
to stakeholders.
• Testing and Validation: Learn and observe how user acceptance testing (UAT) and 
validation of product features work to ensure they meet quality standards and user 
expectations.
• Performance Monitoring: Understanding and assisting in defining and tracking key 
performance indicators (KPIs) and metrics to measure product performance and 
success.
• Continuous Improvement: Continuously seek opportunities for improvement, 
gathering feedback from users and stakeholders to iterate on product features and 
enhance the overall user experience.
• Learning and Development: Stay informed about industry trends, best practices, 
and emerging technologies in product management, seeking out learning 
opportunities to grow and develop in the role.
• Customer Support: Provide support to customer -facing teams, including responding 
to customer inquiries, addressing product -related issues, and assisting with 
customer training and onboarding.
• Team Collaboration: Collaborate with product management peers and other team 
members, sharing knowledge, insights, and best practices to foster a culture of 
collaboration and continuous learning.
IT Job Architecture Job Profiles
18
• Perform other assigned job -related duties that align with our organization's vision, 
mission, and values and fall within your scope of practice.
Qualifications: 
Education: Bachelor's Degree or relevant experience.
Preferred Certification(s): Any relevant IT Certification.
Experience: Less than one year of relevant or practical experience.
Special Skills: 
• Communication: Effective communication, able to present to team and management.
• Learning: Self -motivated and willing to learn new technologies and adapt to change.
• Methodology:  oundational knowledge of Agile Product and Waterfall methodology.
• Decision -Making: Value -based decision -making.
• Problem -solving: Analytical skills for diagnosing and solving issues.
• Organization: Managing time, prioritizing tasks, and handling responsibilitieIT Product Owner II P3
As an IT Product Owner II, you'll serve as the primary liaison between the development 
team and stakeholders, representing the voice of the customer and driving the success of 
our tech products, platforms, or services. Working closely with the product manager and 
cross -functional teams, you'll prioritize and refine the product backlog, ensuring alignment 
with business goals and user needs. You'll collaborate with engineering teams to translate 
requirements into actionable user stories and acceptance criteria. You'll participate in 
sprint planning, retrospectives, backlog grooming, and daily stand -ups, guiding the team in 
delivering high -quality, customer -centric solutions on time and within budget. With a focus 
on continuous improvement, you'll gather feedback, measure product performance, and 
iterate on features to enhance the user experience and drive business outcomes. As a key 
player in the product development lifecycle, you'll be critical in delivering value to our 
customers and achieving success in the competitive tech landscape. With guidance and 
mentorship from seasoned professionals, you'll have the opportunity to develop your skills 
in product management, agile methodology, and stakeholder communication.
Essential Duties and Responsibilities: 
• Requirements Gathering: Work closely with stakeholders, including customers, 
sales, marketing, and engineering teams, to gather and prioritize product 
requirements. All requirements must include a current and future state process map 
to be shared and signed off with your sponsor.
• Product Planning: Assist in creating and maintaining the product roadmap, defining 
features, and release timelines based on business objectives and user needs.
IT Job Architecture Job Profiles
19
• Cross -Functional Collaboration: Collaborate with cross -functional teams, including 
design, engineering, marketing, and sales, to ensure alignment and execution of 
product initiatives.
•  eature Prioritization: Understand how to prioritize features and enhancements 
based on their impact on user experience, business value, and technical feasibility.
• Project Coordination: Coordinate project activities, tasks, and timelines, ensuring 
that milestones are met and deliverables are completed on time and within scope.
• Documentation: Create and maintain product documentation, including user stories, 
feature specifications, and release notes, to communicate requirements and updates 
to stakeholders.
• Testing and Validation: Assist in user acceptance testing (UAT) and validation of 
product features to ensure they meet quality standards and user expectations.
• Performance Monitoring: Understanding and assisting in defining and tracking key 
performance indicators (KPIs) and metrics to measure product performance and 
success.
• Continuous Improvement: Continuously seek opportunities for improvement, 
gathering feedback from users and stakeholders to iterate on product features and 
enhance the overall user experience.
• Learning and Development: Stay informed about industry trends, best practices, 
and emerging technologies in product management, seeking out learning 
opportunities to grow and develop in the role.
• Customer Support: Provide support to customer -facing teams, including responding 
to customer inquiries, addressing product -related issues, and assisting with 
customer training and onboarding.
• Team Collaboration: Collaborate with product management peers and other team 
members, sharing knowledge, insights, and best practices to foster a culture of 
collaboration and continuous learning.
• Perform other assigned job -related duties that align with our organization's vision, 
mission, and values and fall within your scope of practice.
Qualifications: 
Education: Bachelor’s Degree or relevant experience.
Preferred Certification(s): Any relevant IT Certification.
Experience: 1+ years relevant or practical experience.
Special Skills: 
• Methodology: Developing knowledge in Agile Product & Waterfall methodology.
• Communication: Effective communication, able to present to management.
• Decision -Making: Value -based decision -making.
• Learning: Self -motivated and willing to learn new technologies and adapt to change.
IT Job Architecture Job Profiles
20
• Problem -solving: Analytical skills for diagnosing and solving issues.
• Organization: Managing time, prioritizing tasks, and handling responsibilities.
Your Current Work
Writing SQL queries , reconciling SAP and BOM data → aligns with Application Analyst / Data Analyst
responsibilities.•
Limited backlog ownership, sprint facilitation, or roadmap work → not aligned with IT Product Owner 
role.•
✅IT Product Owner Role (from Tyson guidelines)
Primary Responsibilities:•
Backlog refinement & prioritization•
User stories & acceptance criteria•
Stakeholder alignment•Product Manager Role
Thursday, July 24, 2025 11:23 AM
   30 Day Product Owner Takeover Page 19    
Stakeholder alignment•
Sprint planning, retrospectives, and roadmap execution•
Not responsible for: Deep technical data reconciliation or writing SQL queries. •
✅Application Analyst Role (from Analyst Career Path section)
Responsibilities:•
Writing queries•
Troubleshooting applications•
Working on system integrations•
Performing reconciliations and ensuring data integrity•
✅What Your Title Should Reflect
If Tyson expects you to:
Act as PO + perform heavy analyst work , the correct title should be something like: •
“IT Product Owner / Business Systems Analyst”•
Or internally, this might map to IT Product Owner II (P3) with an expanded technical scope . •
If the company expects you to fully own backlog and NOT do SQL work , then:
Your current title ( IT Product Owner ) is correct, but your responsibilities need realignment. •
If they expect technical + product + project mix , the accurate title from Tyson’s structure might be:
IT Project Specialist / Product Owner Hybrid → but this is not an official single role in their framework. •
✅Bottom line:
Your work today matches an Application Analyst or Technical Product Analyst more than a PO . If they 
want you to keep dual roles, your title and pay should reflect a hybrid role —because right now, you’re 
being asked to do two jobs (a technical role + a product role) under one title.
   30 Day Product Owner Takeover Page 20    
Your Current Work
Writing SQL queries , reconciling SAP and BOM data → aligns with Application Analyst / Data Analyst
responsibilities.•
Limited backlog ownership, sprint facilitation, or roadmap work → not aligned with IT Product Owner 
role.•
✅IT Product Owner Role (from Tyson guidelines)
Primary Responsibilities:•
Backlog refinement & prioritization•
User stories & acceptance criteria•
Stakeholder alignment•
Sprint planning, retrospectives, and roadmap execution•
Not responsible for: Deep technical data reconciliation or writing SQL queries. •
✅Application Analyst Role (from Analyst Career Path section)
Responsibilities:•
Writing queries•
Troubleshooting applications•
Working on system integrations•
Performing reconciliations and ensuring data integrity•
✅What Your Title Should Reflect
If Tyson expects you to:
Act as PO + perform heavy analyst work , the correct title should be something like: •
“IT Product Owner / Business Systems Analyst”•
Or internally, this might map to IT Product Owner II (P3) with an expanded technical scope . •
If the company expects you to fully own backlog and NOT do SQL work , then:
Your current title ( IT Product Owner ) is correct, but your responsibilities need realignment. •
If they expect technical + product + project mix , the accurate title from Tyson’s structure might be:
IT Project Specialist / Product Owner Hybrid → but this is not an official single role in their framework. •
✅Bottom line:
Your work today matches an Application Analyst or Technical Product Analyst more than a PO . If they 
want you to keep dual roles, your title and pay should reflect a hybrid role —because right now, you’re 
being asked to do two jobs (a technical role + a product role) under one title.
✅Core Message
I was hired as an Application Analyst → now I’m titled Product Owner → but I’m still doing analyst 
work.•
This isn’t aligned with Tyson’s job architecture for a PO.•
I need clarity: Do you want me to be a true Product Owner, or a hybrid (PO + Analyst)?•
If it’s hybrid, we should adjust scope and compensation accordingly.•
✅Step 1: Start Positive
“I really appreciate the opportunity to grow into the Product Owner role and add value in this capacity. I 
want to make sure I’m aligned with expectations so I can deliver the most impact for the team.”
✅Step 2: Explain the Current Situation
“Right now, I’m still handling a large amount of analyst -level work, like writing SQL queries and 
reconciling SAP and BOM systems. These responsibilities fall under the Application Analyst role in 
Tyson’s job architecture, not the Product Owner role.”
✅Step 3: Reference the Official Guidelines
“According to Tyson’s Product Owner role definition, the focus should be on backlog ownership, 
stakeholder alignment, and sprint planning. I want to make sure I’m delivering on those priorities, but 
with my current technical workload, I have limited time to focus on them.”
✅Step 4: Ask for Clarity
“Could we clarify what the expectation is? Should I fully transition into Product Owner responsibilities, 
or do you want me to continue handling analyst work long -term?”
✅Step 5: Address Compensation if Hybrid Role
“If the plan is for me to keep performing both roles, that’s a significant increase in scope, and I’d like to 
discuss whether my title and compensation can reflect that.”
✅Step 6: Suggest a Solution
“I’m happy to help with technical clarification when needed, but I believe the most value comes from 
focusing on backlog, stakeholder engagement, and roadmap alignment. We could work out a transition 
plan for analyst tasks so I can shift into a true PO role, or define what a hybrid role looks like with the 
right recognition.”
 Do you want me to:
✅Write a word -for-word meeting script you can literally read or adapt?
✅Or create a one -page visual (Current State → Ideal State) with Tyson’s official job descriptions, so IT Data Analyst I P3 The IT Data Analyst I is proficient in SQL and can effectively translate business 
requests into SQL queries. They have a solid understanding of data management practices aligned with 
organizational standards and policies. This role involves writing use cases for functional requirements 
that are accessible to both technical and non -technical personnel. They are also expected to execute 
basic data governance principles, including data stewardship and cataloging, and have the ability to 
create effective business cases and presentations. Essential Duties and Responsibilities: • Data 
management that aligns with the organization's data standards and policies. • Write use cases for 
functional requirements that both technical and non -technical personnel can utilize. • Write effective 
business cases to support data initiatives. • Elicit, document, and manage detailed business 
requirements/business process mapping. • Manage and execute testing (e.g., build test cases, test 
automation, etc.). • Create actionable and appealing presentations and execute presentation delivery. • 
Execution of data governance principles, data stewardship, and data cataloging. • Perform other 
assigned job -related duties that align with our organization's vision, mission, and values and fall within 
your scope of practice. Qualifications: Education: Bachelor’s Degree or relevant experience. Preferred 
Certification(s): Any relevant IT Certification. Experience: Less than one year of relevant or practical 
experience. Special Skills: IT  ob Architecture  ob Profiles 101 • Strong foundation in SQL and the ability 
to translate business requirements into data queries. • Skills in data management according to 
organizational standards and policies. • Experience writing use cases, documenting business 
requirements, and basic project management. Soft Skills: • Problem -solving: Developing basic skills in 
identifying issues in IT systems or processes through data analysis and proposing straightforward 
solutions. • Communication: Clearly articulating findings from IT data analysis to team members and 
stakeholders. • Curiosity: Demonstrating a strong desire to explore new IT data sources, methodologies, 
and technologies. • Self -motivation: Taking initiative on IT data projects and working independently 
when required. • Organizational Skills: Managing multiple IT datasets, tasks, and project components 
efficiently. • Active Listening: Carefully understanding requirements from IT teams and stakeholders to 
ensure accurate data analysis and reporting
✅Your Current Work Matches This Role Strongly
 rom what you’ve said:
Writing SQL queries → Direct match to Data Analyst responsibilities . •
Reconciling SAP & BOM Portal data →  alls under data management and governance . •
Documenting functional requirements and use cases → Listed under Data Analyst duties . •
Managing detailed business requirements → Shared responsibility between Analyst and PO roles. •
✅But Your Title Is IT Product Owner
Product Owner responsibilities (per Tyson’s own architecture):•
Backlog ownership•
Sprint planning, retrospectives•
User stories + acceptance criteria•
Stakeholder alignment•
NOT: Writing SQL, data reconciliation, executing governance, cataloging.•
What Does This Mean?
Right now, you’re doing 60 –70% Data Analyst work, 30 –40% Product Owner work . •
Your title says PO , but your daily work aligns with a hybrid: PO + Data Analyst . •
✅How to Explain This to Your Boss (with this new evidence)
Here’s a tight script for your meeting :
Step 1: Acknowledge Opportunity
“I appreciate the opportunity to transition into the Product Owner role. I want to make sure I’m 
delivering the most value in line with our expectations.”
Step 2: Explain Reality Using Tyson Job Profiles
“Based on Tyson’s role definitions, Product Owners focus on backlog management, stakeholder 
alignment, and guiding delivery teams. My current work is still heavily tied to SQL queries, SAP/BOM 
reconciliation, and data governance —responsibilities that match the IT Data Analyst profile, not a PO.
Essentially, I’m functioning as both a Data Analyst and a Product Owner right now.”
Step 3: Ask for Clarity
“Could we clarify expectations? Should I fully transition into a Product Owner role, or continue handling 
both Analyst and PO responsibilities long -term?”
Step 4: Discuss Compensation if Dual Role
“If the plan is for me to keep performing both roles, that’s a significant increase in scope and 
responsibility. I’d like to talk about what that means for title and compensation.”
✅Framing It Professionally
 ou’re not complaining , you’re advocating for role clarity . •
 ou’re backing it up with Tyson’s own job architecture . •
 ou’re offering two clear paths : •
Transition Analyst work off your plate → true PO role. •
Keep hybrid → adjust pay/title to reflect it. •Current Work
Thursday, July 24, 2025 11:31 AM
   30 Day Product Owner Takeover Page 21    
 Do you want me to:
✅Write a word -for-word meeting script you can literally read or adapt?
✅Or create a one -page visual (Current State → Ideal State) with Tyson’s official job descriptions, so 
you can show them why this is a mismatch?
Which one will help you more for your conversation?
Your Core Message
You weren’t avoiding Product Owner work; you were absorbing analyst -level tasks out of necessity . •
 ou’ve learned new skills under pressure (SQL, SAP/BOM data structures) to keep projects moving. •
This created role misalignment —but now you’re taking steps to correct it so you can deliver maximum 
PO value next year.•
✅How to Say It
Start with Gratitude & Effort
“ irst, I want to say I’ve worked hard this year to keep things moving for the team and deliver what was 
needed—even when that meant stepping outside the typical Product Owner role.”
Acknowledge the Reality
“This year, I spent a large portion of my time on technical analyst work like writing SQL queries and 
reconciling SAP and BOM systems. That was necessary for the project to move forward, but it left me 
with less time to focus on backlog ownership and other PO responsibilities.”
Clarify It Wasn’t Lack of Effort
“This wasn’t from a lack of effort —it was because we needed someone to handle those technical tasks, 
and I stepped in to make sure work got done.”
Pivot to What You’ve Learned
“The upside is, I’ve learned a lot about SAP data structures and SQL under real pressure, which will make 
me a stronger Product Owner in the future.”
Position It as a Business Risk
“That said, continuing in this hybrid role means I can’t give full attention to backlog alignment and 
stakeholder priorities, which are critical for delivery. I’d like to work with you on clarifying expectations 
and possibly transitioning analyst tasks so I can focus on where I can add the most value.”
✅Close with a Solution
“Going into next year, my goal is to fully step into the Product Owner role as defined in Tyson’s job 
architecture —backlog ownership, roadmap alignment, and sprint planning. Could we discuss a transition 
plan so we’re both aligned?”
✅What This Does
✔Shows accountability (you took on work for the team’s success).
✔Avoids sounding defensive (it’s framed as a learning experience).
✔Positions you as proactive (asking for role clarity and solutions).
✔Sets up a positive pivot into next year . ou’re not complaining , you’re advocating for role clarity . •
 ou’re backing it up with Tyson’s own job architecture . •
 ou’re offering two clear paths : •
Transition Analyst work off your plate → true PO role. •
Keep hybrid → adjust pay/title to reflect it. •
   30 Day Product Owner Takeover Page 22    
Year -End Self -Evaluation Draft
1. Key Contributions & Accomplishments
This year, I demonstrated flexibility and commitment to ensuring project success, even when 
responsibilities shifted beyond the typical scope of a Product Owner role.
Took ownership of critical SQL -based reconciliation tasks between SAP and BOM systems to keep the 
project on track which aligns more with Tysons Job Architecture role as a data analyst•
Learned SAP data structures and SQL query optimization under pressure, enabling accurate 
reconciliation of complex datasets that I had no prior knowledge on. •
Delivered key reports and validations that supported business decisions and compliance requirements.•
Maintained collaboration with stakeholders and the development team while balancing technical and 
analytical work.•
2. Challenges & How I Addressed Them
One challenge this year was balancing analyst -level technical work with the responsibilities of a Product 
Owner. Much of my time was spent writing SQL queries, performing data reconciliations, and 
troubleshooting SAP/BOM issues, which are typically outside a PO’s scope.
I addressed this by prioritizing critical project deliverables, working extended hours when necessary, and 
seeking opportunities to learn new technical skills quickly. This approach ensured that work moved 
forward despite resource constraints.
3. Skills Developed
Advanced SQL query writing and data reconciliation techniques.•
Stronger understanding of SAP master data and BOM structures.•
Improved problem -solving under pressure and cross -functional communication. •
4. Opportunities for Growth
Moving forward, I’d like to focus more on the core Product Owner responsibilities outlined in Tyson’s 
job architecture, such as:
Backlog ownership and prioritization.•
Stakeholder alignment and roadmap planning.•
User story development and sprint facilitation.•
Doing so will allow me to deliver greater value to the business by ensuring the team works on the 
highest -priority features and initiatives.
5. Request for Alignment
To achieve this, I’d like to work with leadership to:
Clarify expectations for my role moving forward.•
Develop a transition plan for analyst -level tasks so I can focus on strategic PO responsibilities. •
If dual -role responsibilities remain necessary, discuss appropriate recognition for the increased scope. •Request for Realignment
Thursday, July 24, 2025 11:35 AM
   30 Day Product Owner Takeover Page 23    
6. Summary
This year taught me resilience and adaptability. While my responsibilities were more technical than 
anticipated, I embraced the challenge and delivered critical outcomes for the business. Looking ahead, 
I’m committed to leveraging what I’ve learned while focusing on the Product Owner role to drive 
business value.
   30 Day Product Owner Takeover Page 24    
Link to Training: Recap: BOM Portal Developer Training -Session 1 Thursday, July 24 | Meeting 
| Microsoft Teams
HashiCorp Vault Endpoints
Overview of current endpoint configurations•
Authentication Mechanisms•
Secure storage/retrieval of secrets•
Vault integration into application workflows•
Splunk & API Integrations 
Using Splunk for system monitoring and troubleshooting•
Best practices for API integration and automation•
Vault
Vault -1015 -BOM -Portal (Old Repo)
Vault -2133 -BOM -Portal (Current Repo)
Credentials of Database
Service Accounts. 
Hashivault.tyson.com
Open 2133
Files
K8s –Cluster where the application is hosted
BOM Portal is hosted on AWS kubernetes using cluster containers. 
Info about each service running on the cluster. 
For example if we need to match the repository and secrets here. 
Gitlab, repository
Secrets to dynamo exists in k8s we use to figure out which environment to connect to 
All the information is working directly with the services that we have in git lab. 
Files folder has different json specific info about application, URL, Service accounts. 
Esppublish -api-appsettings.json, so we need to have info ready in secrets to consume that and make 
that connection. 
Vault is to save sensible information for different components and environments, version options are 
most recent
Certificate information about application 
Vault is just save information and making it visible to have there to consume our information to our 
repositories for connections/establishing communciation with services, API, hashi stores all the info. 
To create a secret 
Splunk Enterprises
All of our application and microservices are running AWS kubernetes writing logs or specific 
output we can track all this information inside of splunk. Logs. 
Put our repo in the namespace. 
We can review information from a long time ago. 
Cluster
Different environments, different clusters. Prod is entapps -prod -eks. 
We are telling splunk that w
Pods –services that are currently running on the cluster
Not all of our services are runining on cluster, some are not working, however most of them are 
working in the cluster. Repository to pods, same names. Look in gitlab find name then insert into 
pod namespace. 
This is wehre we can see the logs. 
When the pod stops running we manually have to turn it on to run it again. 
Splunk is whats happening with microservices. 
Snaplogic connects the application through pipeline or jobs, Search feature in splunk you can enter the 
ID and track all documents and materials. 
Splunk is for everything that is running for tyson, every application generates logs and they're inside of 
splunk
Monitoring Log Files, Monitoring Kubernetes, Kubernetes –Managing services inside of cluster
Once deployed to AWS kubernetes container is the intermediary, we deploy, tool to manage application 
and services to configure something containers represent specific functions in AWS 
Vault & Monitoring Integration
Thursday, July 24, 2025 9:45 AM
   Developer Training Page 25    
Session 2: Development Environment & Workflow Tools
Insomnia (API Client)
Setting up requests and managing environments•
Troubleshooting API workflows••
Cloning from GitLab
Repository cloning steps•
Local dev environment setup•
Team collaboration essentials••
Insomnia (API Client)
Setting up requests and man
<<BomForgeInsomnia>>
<<OktaBomForgeApiInsomnia>>
<<OfficialProductApiInsomnia>>
<<OktaBomForgeApiInsomnia>>Session 2: 
Friday, July 25, 2025 10:30 AM
   Developer Training Page 26    
API Contract Discussion Notes
Presented by: Shannon Massman
Summary: Shannon delivered a very intuitive knowledge transfer (KT) session.
Key Concepts
What is an API Contract?
A formal agreement that defines how two software systems interact through an API.
Ensures consistent communication between systems by defining:○
Endpoints○
Request/response structure○
Data formats○
Validation rules○•
Common APIs
Most commonly used: RESTful APIs •
REST = Representational State Transfer •
Messages contain all necessary information for processing.•
No persistent state required between two systems (stateless).API Contract Concepts 
Tuesday, July 29, 2025 10:01 AM
   Developer Training Page 27    
No persistent state required between two systems (stateless).•
Characteristics of REST
Typically uses JSON (but not limited to JSON). •
Idempotency:
Idempotent = Same result even if executed multiple times.○
Example: Set bank balance to zero. Run again → still zero. ○•
Non -idempotent = Result changes with repeated execution.
Example: Subtract amount from balance. Multiple runs → decreasing balance. ○•
Non -RESTful Example
An interaction requiring state , such as: •
Streaming data where each piece (e.g., a letter in a chat message) is meaningless without the 
previous state.•
Communication Flow
Client → API Endpoint → Server → Response → Done. •
Data Representation
JSON
Human -readable•
   Developer Training Page 28    
Human -readable ○
Common for REST payloads○
YAML
More human -readable than JSON ○
OpenAPI supports both JSON and YAML○•
Payload Examples
Recipe Payload to SAP•
BOM Publishing Payload (most important for BOM Portal → SAP communication) •
Purpose of an API Contract
Defines where and how data is exchanged . •
Used between multiple systems (e.g., PDM and BOM Portal ). •
Ensures consistent integration and connectivity.•
Reduces ambiguity and downstream validation issues.•
Contract precision = critical to avoiding errors.•
OpenAPI Specification
Most popular standard for documenting REST API contracts.•
Two main sections:•
Paths: Define API endpoints, HTTP methods (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE), parameters, references,    Developer Training Page 29    
Paths: Define API endpoints, HTTP methods (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE), parameters, references, 
and responses.1.
Component Schemas: Define payload structure (schema). 2.
Allows:•
Generating clients from the contract (ensures client -server sync). •
Enforcing standards during build (pipeline integration).•
Practical Notes
Integration Today:•
Example: BOM Portal ↔ PDM •
Request (with material number) → Returns formulation payload. •
Contracts help define:•
New payload creation•
Updates•
Copy of formulation•
Benefits of Clean Contracts:•
Simplifies work•
Tight data restraints reduce validation•
Allows pipeline auto -checks→ build fails if incompatible. •
Contract Size   Developer Training Page 30    
Contract Size
Original contract size was 90% larger than actual payload. •
Reduced contract complexity improves maintainability.•
Development Workflow
Create API → Generate Contract → Then Client 1.
OR2.
Define contract first (based on business requirements).•
Implement contract in provider and consumer.•
Validate in build pipeline.•
Client -Server Workflow
Client can auto -generate REST client from the contract. ○
Example:○
api.formulation(parameters.materialNumber)○
90% of work done → Data type, view model generated automatically. ○
Ensures Client/Server Compliance . ○
Contract Integration in Pipeline
Automated validation○
Compilation fails if:
Schema mismatch▪
Endpoint mismatch○
   Developer Training Page 31    
Endpoint mismatch▪
Supports multiple paths in the same contract (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE).○
Additional Notes
DTO = Data Transfer Object
Contracts ensure DTO reflects the agreed schema.○•
Validators enforce structure during runtime.•
In .NET:
Both PDM and BOM Portal use .NET mid -tier layers for contract -based communication. ○•
End Result:
Clear, precise API contracts = streamlined development, fewer errors, stronger integration, and 
automated compliance.
   Developer Training Page 32    
✅Cloud -Native Architecture Overview
AWS = Cloud platform (compute, storage, networking, security, etc.).•
Kubernetes (K8s) = Orchestrates containers (apps) across clusters. •
Docker = Builds container images of applications. •
GitLab = Hosts approved container images (registry) and manages CI/CD pipelines. •
DynamoDB = AWS managed NoSQL database. •
Redis = In-memory cache, fast performance. •
SignalR = Real -time communication for apps (.NET focus). •
Kubernetes Concepts
Cluster : A group of nodes (servers) managed by Kubernetes. •
Node : A machine (VM or physical) in the cluster.•
Namespace : Logical separation within a cluster for different environments/projects. •
Deployment : Defines how pods should run (desired state). •
Pod: Smallest deployable unit in K8s; contains one or more containers.•
Service : Exposes pods internally or externally for communication. •
ReplicaSet : Ensures a specified number of pod replicas are running. •
Monitoring : •
Status, Restarts, Age → Monitored via kubectl get pods . •
Detect failing pods or replicas and restart automatically.•
Kubernetes in Action
Deploy services via Helm charts or YAML definitions. •
View logs, restart counts, memory, and CPU usage in K8s dashboard. •
If a pod fails , its replica also fails (same feature, same deployment). •
Multiple replicas ensure high availability . •
AWS Context
AWS Enterprise Apps = Production environment. •
AWS Enterprise App Dev = Development environment. •
Login via login.tyson.com → AWS SSO → Select environment. •
AWS Core Services Used:
Compute : EC2, Lambda •
Storage : S3, EBS •
Database : DynamoDB, RDS •
Networking : VPC, Route 53 •
Caching : ElastiCache (Redis) •
Messaging : SNS, SQS •
✅Key Components Explained
1. DynamoDB
Type : NoSQL (Key -Value & Document) •AWS 
Wednesday, July 30, 2025 10:32 AM
   Developer Training Page 33    
Type : NoSQL (Key -Value & Document) •
Features : •
Serverless, auto -scaling •
Global replication•
Low latency•
Use Cases : Session stores, IoT, e -commerce catalogs. •
2. Redis Clusters (via AWS ElastiCache)
Purpose : High -speed caching •
Features : •
In-memory → lightning -fast queries •
Clustering → horizontal scaling, fault tolerance •
Uses :•
Cache for DynamoDB or RDS•
Session state management•
Pub/Sub messaging•
3. SignalR
Purpose : Real -time communication for .NET apps •
How on AWS : •
Deploy on EC2 or ECS containers •
Use Load Balancer + Auto Scaling•
Serverless alternative: API Gateway (WebSockets)•
✅How They Work Together
DynamoDB : Persistent storage of user/app data. •
Redis Cluster : Cache for speed and reduce DB load. •
SignalR : Push real -time notifications to clients. •
AWS Services : Glue everything together using API Gateway, Lambda, CloudFront, and IAM for security. •
DevOps Flow
GitLab Repo → Stores approved Docker images. •
Docker→ Builds images from application code. •
Kubernetes → Deploys these images as containers in pods. •
AWS→ Provides infrastructure (compute, storage, networking).•
✅Visual Summary :
Docker→ Builds image → Pushes to GitLab Container Registry → Kubernetes deploys container → 
Managed on AWS .•
Data Layer: DynamoDB + Redis . •
Real -time: SignalR on EC2/ECS. •
   Developer Training Page 34    
https://tysononline.sharepoint.com/:f:/r/sites/ID00001813/Shared%20Documents/Integrations/BOM%20Portal?csf=1&web=1&e=e5NtFu
BOM Portal Integration
Overall Process Flow
Architect Flow
Project Timeline
BOM Portal Integration
PDM Integration Diagram
Current State OLD PLM 
Tentatively they are wanting to establish an interim state
Develop PLM capability in specright
Establish spec right connectivity with SAP and Master Data
Interim Data Synchronization from Old PLM to SpecRight
Data migration and maintenance from old PLM to SpecRight
Publish Specright data to GCP for integration
Enhance legacy solutions to leverage PLM data from GCP 
Andre has concerns on how we currently manage recipes in legacy, he fears he will need to maintain both legacy system more th oroughly as 
well as the upcoming design from a project perspective
Kari says they haven't figured out 
Amanda is wondering what is going to change with spec right like 
Andre explained very technically how the data is going to be fed. 
Material master data is coming from SAP to specright to GCP to us. 
PDM doesn’t provide Plant level information
BOM Portal 
Risks
Timeline Misalignment : SpecRight’s planned February go -live is not feasible; master formulation will not be ready until March, and SOX 
blackout pushes earliest possible go -live to April.•
Dual Data Sources : During transition, BOM Portal may need to handle data from both GSM and GCP, increasing complexity and risk of 
inconsistent data.•
Unclear Scope : Full requirements and scope are not yet defined, leading to uncertainty in planning and risk of rework. •
Changing Requirements : Ongoing changes in business requirements (e.g., how "prepared" is defined, byproducts, rework) could impact 
system design and integration.•
Complex Code/Logic : If BOM Portal must handle different data structures or business rules for different product types or sources, code 
complexity and maintenance risk increase.•
Notification of Change : Guaranteeing delivery and notification of changes across systems is technically challenging, especially with multiple 
data sources.•
Data Migration Authority : Lack of clear transition rules and authority for data between old and new systems could lead to data integrity 
issues.•
Resource Constraints : Integration design is resource -intensive, and scheduling may be impacted by overlapping priorities and limited 
availability.•
Incremental Value Pressure : Business pressure to deliver incremental value (e.g., decommissioning systems early) may drive suboptimal 
phasing or shortcuts.•
Vendor Coordination : SpecRight’s integration contact is temporarily unavailable, delaying progress on integration planning. •
Current State Review Pt 2 7/29/2025_____________________
Andre Lara
Amanda Gabourel
Resource Assignments Functional Requirements + Process Flows. 
Current standpoint recap
Multiple Microservice based application
Different API's integration, all are restful and integrated follow restful design. 
PDM Spec Changes have a three way data ingestion, separate functionalities and tools for message acquisition and then spec ch ange data 
acquisition. Only considering specifications that have changed, also creation message. 
What if a spec is canceled or deleted? When a spec goes official plant controller creates ticket to cost accounting group to create the bom 
calling service then generating template view from spec system. 
Cumbersome process of one material one formulation at a time, lots of entropy, reconciliation process to see if bom in bom ar e up to date 
against the formulation in pdm 
When we trigger pdm service gateway we see if changes are applicable
Questions:
Is this process sox relevant –confirmed by Jerry
GSM is the authoritive layer
GSM to BOM BOM to GSM –current
How much data do we grab from PDM on a daily?
Right now we just grab a large payload
NOT REAL TIME –BATCH PROCESSING EVENT TRIGGER
Official product payload, assumption is that it is running into max and some things are not triggering called to be made, cat ch all
Visibility of reconciliation process. 
How many records are transferred 3,000 formulations daily, on the weekend. Bring peak volume down find how much load we will be 
capturing on our server. Unique numbers for every update, probably not consuming as much memory and resources.
SAP and Not on BOM Process, 
PDM to BOM Portal is currently XML, new one will have a json contract, 
GSM to BOM Portal they just communicate material number that changed and gives reference of trade spec version to be pointed to 
official Product is only 
2 integrations
From a legacy perspective how bom portal will get formulations
How users will interpret recipes and formulations 
Each part different relationship
Operations/Steps
Operations ie remove trim
Linked operations is called a sequence
Uncoocked boneless chicken 
Concieved from three operations
Cost accounting seperates into what is needed for forecasting and control cost of goods and they will have an operational obj ect, 
manufacturing production bom types, those used for all plant controllers that produce outputs based on config in bom portal. Bom 
portal has forecasting and configuration tools. Yields are input , Seconds, packaging, etc. How cost accounting controls COGs . Certain 
BOM Types says hey two same materials different way of making the end product. A way to 
Production BOM vs Finance
When we create boms plant, material, cost center combination. We need to specify the proceessing a bom needs to follow 
Cost accounting says:
Production -
Finance –Leads the data contained for production boms, master, driver drives production boms, original accounting price, 0300 
is corporate virtual plant for standard price. 
Other variations of finance boms, production bom should go with costing bom with structure so if costing it that way should b e 
producing. Costing bom in finance can set what they're producing on each line for each version of a production bom. 
1 material that goes plant level production bom and alternate version, spec changes replicate through all of this. 
We arent generically feeding information 
Different alts different plants. You can send the same message. You'd be the only impacted if alternate do I care what I chan ged in 
spec, then do I care about when changed in plant
GSM doesn’t care
No plant data in GSM, Handle it in BOM Portal for Plant specific Data. 
Some structural differences exist in spec right 5 specs 3 salts were using 15 salts total
3 salts on 1 spec 3 salts on another spec different salt. Any number of variations of salt. 321 trade unit, going forward if we could do 
alternates of eachother is if we add more salt to grouping of salt. Impacting performance so 10000 specs one salt added in sp ec right 
could be 30000 specs in bom updated. We can prioritize this by this Friday
BOM PORTAL TIMELINE
Current State Review
Tuesday, July 22, 2025 1:08 PM
   PLM Page 35    
could be 30000 specs in bom updated. 
Going forward define the contract we need to establish with PDM api application, 
Least required data collection that aligns to see bom on formulation
PLM Modernization tool and template, yaml file for transmit send receive for bom portal spec changes. 
We first pass the material number for finished codes. 
Finished goods are ZFG or ZCWP. We need to have a material with 11 digits instances where formulation consumes and already 
consumed formulation a wip can consume a wip and so on. 
Then we get ingredients or components material numbers,
ON GSM alternates arent desirable for prime product how is seconds defined in GSM. 
Today if byproduct or rework, seconds code, in bom portal it specifies by product rework. Material Attribute for product grad e to 
denote 
A seconds is an error in production or defect
A byproduct is something youll always get like bones
BOM Portal needs to transalte the sequence of operations that takes place
Step links –operations linked that occurs prior to another, derived into subequent and source step code. Step from which an output is 
directed to subsequent the destination step is the reciever of the outpt  1 or more operations are related = sequence tumble -> 
pack -> pickle. GSM Spec weight on output of step and percentage we expect. 100% when It goes to destination step code. 
Steps are corelated with how operations corelate like how its identified in the system for a step we need:
Step digit 
Step Name
Material Number
Step Weight
Input Material Number 
Packaging Material Number
Material Quantity
Material UoM
Seconds materials not created why is it there? An array of possible seconds materials that are based on reference
   PLM Page 36    
To use your Tyson Foods offer letter as leverage for a better raise at your 1 -year mark, you need to 
approach your review strategically, tying your request to:
Performance1.
Market Value2.
Initial Offer Terms3.
Incentives and Contributions4.
Here’s how you can build your case using the offer letter and additional strategic elements:
✅1. Reference Your Original Offer & Contributions
“When I joined Tyson as an Application Analyst under offer R0324617, the base salary was $69,000 with 
a 5% annual incentive target. Over the past year, I’ve delivered on and expanded beyond the 
expectations of that role, including…”
Led the redesign and functional overhaul of the BOM Portal (now BOM Forge) to improve usability, 
reconcile SAP integration discrepancies, and support stakeholder workflows more effectively.•
Designed and implemented Power BI reporting structures to reconcile throughput, crewing, and 
component -level data between SAP and the BOM Portal, supporting business -critical financial accuracy 
and operational transparency.•
Authored and maintained detailed functional specifications, data dictionaries, UX wireframes, and 
user stories , ensuring clarity and alignment across developers, stakeholders, and QA testers.•
Improved data reconciliation processes and accuracy across SAP and GCP environments , identifying 
discrepancies and driving resolution across systems and teams.•
Partnered with cross -functional teams (Accounting, Costing, Product Development, and IT) to gather 
business requirements, lead workshops, and align technical solutions with strategic goals.•
Facilitated knowledge transfer and onboarding for new team members and contributed to long -term 
platform sustainability through well -documented technical flows and business logic.•
Acted as de facto product owner , coordinating with developers, leading sprint planning, validating 
testing results, and managing backlog prioritization in support of evolving business needs.•
✅2. Highlight Eligibility for Raises and Incentive Plan
2. Tie Impact to Pay Philosophy: “Be Competitive and Reward Performance”•
“According to Tyson’s compensation philosophy, base pay and incentive opportunities are intended to be 
competitive and to reward performance based on long -term consistent results, internal equity, and 
market competitiveness. I’d like to advocate for a salary adjustment that reflects the scope, sustained 
contributions, and strategic impact I’ve delivered over the past year.”
My contributions align with Tyson’s core salary criteria:
Long -Term Consistent Performance:
Over the past year, I’ve consistently exceeded expectations in my role, including leading the UX and 
technical redesign of the BOM Portal, resolving system discrepancies, and serving as the de facto 
Product Owner for core financial tooling. These efforts have not only stabilized critical systems but also 
delivered measurable value to business stakeholders across costing and finance operations.•Salary Information
Thursday, July 17, 2025 8:17 AM
   Raise Page 37    
delivered measurable value to business stakeholders across costing and finance operations.
Internal Equity:
Based on my job grade and functional contributions, I’ve taken on responsibilities aligned with higher -
level analyst or associate product owner roles. Given that salary increases may also result from 
expanded scope within the same job grade, I believe my role evolution over the past 12 months 
warrants review for internal equity with peers at similar responsibility levels.•
Market Competitiveness:
Industry benchmarks for Application Analysts and early Product Owners with cross -functional impact, 
system ownership, and SAP/business system reconciliation responsibilities show salary ranges higher 
than my current $69K base. Considering the regional market and the complexity of the work I’ve 
delivered, my compensation should be aligned accordingly with market expectations.•
“I also understand that Annual Incentive Plan payouts are based on company, group, and individual 
performance, and that salary reviews consider performance over time rather than isolated one -year 
efforts. However, I believe my sustained level of ownership and problem -solving over the last 12 
months—especially as we redefined core workflows, reduced manual processes, and supported audit -
level integrity in BOM and SAP integration —reflects above -core contribution to the team and broader 
business objectives.”
 Suggested Raise Framing:
Request: Raise to $75,000 –78,000 base salary, citing long -term consistent performance, expanded 
scope, and market competitiveness.•
Alternative Ask: If a full raise isn’t possible due to budgeting constraints, propose a lump -sum bonus
(e.g., 5–7%) in recognition of high -impact contributions with commitment to re -evaluation during the 
next salary review.•
✅3. Prepare Salary Benchmark Data
 Your Current Role: Analyst Applications (Tyson Grade 82 or 83 equivalent)
Current Base Salary : $69,000 •
Target Raise Range : $72,500 –$76,000 (5% –10%) •
 External Market Benchmarks (Fayetteville, AR / NWA Region)
Role Title Median 
SalaryRange (25th –75th 
percentile)Source
Application Analyst I/II $73,000 $65,000 –$83,000 Glassdoor, Payscale, Robert 
Half
IT Business Analyst (Entry -Mid) $76,500 $68,000 –$88,000 Zippia, Dice
Associate Product Owner $80,000 $72,000 –$90,000 BuiltIn, Levels.fyi
Systems Analyst –SAP / ERP 
Support$78,000 $70,000 –$90,000 ZipRecruiter, Salary.com
Note: Regional salaries in NWA are ~5 –10% below national averages, but Tyson offsets this with Total 
Rewards (401k match, parental leave, stock purchase, etc.)
 Internal Comparisons (Tyson or Similar Employers)
You could reference internal roles posted on:
   Raise Page 38    
You could reference internal roles posted on:
Tyson’s Workday internal career portal •
Public listings from J.B. Hunt , Walmart , and Simmons Foods •
Example Tyson postings (titles may vary by team):
Associate Product Owner –Grade 83: $75,000 –$85,000 base (target 10% incentive) •
IT Business Analyst –Grade 82: $70,000 –$82,000 base (target 5% –10% incentive) •
Sr. Application Analyst –Grade 84: $82,000 –$95,000 base •
✅4. Position Yourself for Promotion or Title Upgrade
If you’ve been doing work above your current scope, ask for:
A promotion to a higher level (e.g., Sr Analyst or Associate Product Owner)•
Or a re-title with commensurate pay adjustment •
Frame it as:
“I’ve consistently delivered on responsibilities that go beyond the original Analyst scope, including 
business analysis, stakeholder alignment, and product ownership tasks.”
✅5. Use Timing to Your Advantage
You will also be vesting into 401(k) match and stock purchase plan match at 1 year. Use this milestone 
to show commitment and position your raise as part of continued growth at Tyson.
 Template Script for Raise Conversation
Hi Tricia,
As I approach my one -year mark in the Analyst Applications role, I wanted to revisit my compensation 
and growth path here at Tyson. Since joining under offer R0324617, I’ve contributed to [list 2 –3 key 
results], taken ownership of [any stretch responsibilities], and supported the company’s objectives in 
[finance, application stability, etc.].
Based on my performance, current market benchmarks, and my growing role in [UX, reconciliation, 
stakeholder engagement, etc.], I’d like to discuss a merit -based raise and potential title progression. I’m 
committed to continuing to deliver value, and I believe this adjustment would reflect the scope and 
impact of my work.
Would you be open to setting up a time to talk more?
Would you like help drafting your actual accomplishments in this format to strengthen your case?
   Raise Page 39    
 Raise & Role Growth Justification Memo (For Manager/HR Conversation)
To:Tricia McCoy
From: Greg Homstad
Subject: 1-Year Performance Review: Compensation & Role Growth Discussion
Date: [Insert Date of Meeting or Email]
Overview:
As I approach my 1 -year anniversary under offer R0324617 in the Analyst Applications role, I’d like to 
revisit my compensation and role trajectory based on sustained performance, evolving scope, and 
alignment with Tyson’s compensation philosophy of “Be Competitive and Reward Performance.”
Key Contributions (Past 12 Months):
Led the full UX and functional redesign of the BOM Portal (now BOM Forge), improving SAP integration 
clarity, usability, and cross -team workflows.•
Designed and implemented Power BI data reconciliation reports, enabling visibility into throughput, 
crewing, and component variances between SAP and the BOM Portal.•
Authored functional specs, UX mockups, data dictionaries, and traceability matrices that aligned 
business and development teams across Costing, Product Development, and IT.•
Acted as de facto product owner: backlog management, user story creation, sprint planning, QA 
validation, and change prioritization.•
Collaborated across departments to support strategic initiatives, reduce manual processes, and enforce 
audit -level integrity in BOM and SAP data.•
Why I’m Requesting a Salary Adjustment:
✅Long -Term Consistent Performance
My work consistently exceeded expectations for the role and contributed to cross -functional success.
✅Internal Equity
The responsibilities I’ve owned align more closely with higher -level roles such as Associate Product 
Owner or Senior Analyst (Grade 83 –84).
✅Market Competitiveness
Current salary ($69,000) is below local and national medians for comparable roles:
Role Market Median (Fayetteville, AR)
Application Analyst I/II $73,000
IT Business Analyst (Mid) $76,500
Associate Product Owner $80,000
SAP Systems Analyst $78,000
✅Company Guidelines Support It
According to Tyson’s Base Pay Management Framework , salary increases may be granted for expanded 
scope within the same job grade or long -term consistent performance. Additionally, I’ll be reaching my 
1-year match eligibility for 401(k) and stock purchase, reinforcing my long -term commitment.
Request:
I’d like to request a raise to $75,000–$78,000 , which reflects my contributions, current scope, and 
benchmarks. If a full raise isn’t feasible at this time, I’m open to a lump -sum performance bonus in the 
interim, with re -evaluation during the next salary review cycle.
Next Steps:
Would you be open to a brief meeting to discuss this in more detail?
Thank you for your support and guidance this past year.
Best regards,
Greg Homstad
Analyst Applications
greg.homstad@tyson.comTo:Tricia McCoy
From: Greg Homstad
Subject: 1-Year Performance Review: Compensation & Role Growth Discussion
Date: [Insert Date]
Overview:
As I approach my 1 -year anniversary under offer R0324617, I’d like to revisit my compensation and role 
trajectory based on sustained performance, evolving scope, and alignment with Tyson’s compensation 
philosophy of “Be Competitive and Reward Performance.” My title was formally updated to IT Product 
Owner shortly after joining, and my responsibilities have grown significantly since then.
Key Contributions (Past 12 Months):
Led the UX and functional redesign of the BOM Portal (now BOM Forge), addressing stakeholder pain 
points and improving clarity, navigation, and SAP integration workflows.•
Built and refined Power BI reports for throughput, crewing, and recipe -component reconciliation across 
SAP and BOM systems, enabling high -impact decision -making.•
Authored and maintained comprehensive documentation, including user stories, functional specs, data 
dictionaries, traceability matrices, and UX wireframes to support cross -functional alignment.•
Acted as Product Owner, leading sprint planning, backlog grooming, QA validation, and stakeholder 
prioritization sessions across IT and finance teams.•
Partnered with business stakeholders in Costing, Product Development, and Finance to map workflows, 
reduce manual errors, and support operational audits.•
Why I’m Requesting a Salary Adjustment:
✅Long -Term Consistent Performance
My sustained performance has driven efficiency, visibility, and business value across multiple teams and 
systems.
✅Internal Equity
I’ve taken on responsibilities aligned with higher -level roles, including full product ownership functions, 
business analysis, and stakeholder management. A re -evaluation for parity within comparable Tyson job 
grades is warranted.
✅Market Competitiveness
Current salary ($69,000) is below the regional benchmark for similar roles:
Role Median Salary Source
IT Product Owner $80,000 BuiltIn, Dice, Glassdoor
Associate Product Manager $78,000 Salary.com
SAP Systems Analyst $78,000 ZipRecruiter
Application Analyst II $73,000 Robert Half
✅Alignment with Tyson Guidelines
The Base Pay Management Framework emphasizes long -term consistent performance, internal equity, 
and market competitiveness. My current contributions and expanded scope align directly with this 
framework.
Request:
I respectfully request a salary adjustment to $75,000–$78,000 , reflecting my contributions and market 
alignment. If a full raise is not feasible at this time, I’m open to a lump -sum bonus with re -evaluation at 
the next salary review cycle.
Next Steps:
Would you be open to setting up a time to discuss this further? I’m committed to continuing to grow 
within Tyson and delivering strategic value across teams.
Best regards,
Greg Homstad
IT Product Owner
Greg.Homstad@tyson.comLetter to Tricia
Thursday, July 17, 2025 8:23 AM
   Raise Page 40    
Do we have a plan for integration of specright into bom portal. 
Andre and Shannon have spoken they must maintiain consistency and regulations 
Introduced a contract that what bom portal needs is what the plm tool will provide –briefly talked 
about
Concerns with integration of specright and ongoing BOM Portal project
Getting data Across GSM Specright, two origins of data.
We reconcile bom portal back to GSM today as it is not always a reliable interface. 
Kari is talking with doug and Geof and said hey everything is going to be in GCP in the same 
manner we are getting it now so that bom portal can ingest it. 
We're just now getting master formulation up and running, we won't be done til march
Spec right is in february –how do we keep the data flowing. 
Once all plm integration needed we will have to go through planning. Plan happens after BRD, 
development we will need to do. 
We have a timeline that was pulled out of the air. Shannon and Keri, february, master formulation 
is still on target for march with specright with anything is there anything we need to rethink
Risks:
Ensure consisten formulations and we have a transition rule
We have a strong concise requirements specification for the data we need we have 
functional requirements, we want to know if it has to change. Revise requirements 
document. We need data requirements for bom portal to exist and we need to know what 
our cutover rule is going to be. 
Enterprise plants make both poultry and prepared products in it. We don't have to exposure to go 
the other direction. Big ass projects they don't want to spend money and decomission others 
If we cant consume that data and make money it isnt live its stale data
It's not just pulling bom portal to a new data source.
If bom portal has to behave differently. 
If we have to produce a chicken biscuit and patti needs the chicken breast over here in poultry 
prepared 
Interface pointed towards gcp and gsm so how does that work. Do we split off and run a separate 
instance of bom portal. Updating current bom portal to read gcp. If the data is in gcp the 
specification data bom portal requires 
As long as they don't break the contract these two instances of bom portal will behave differently, 
new bom portal, data from two different spots unless we tell plm to deliver to GCP 
The data is staying the same for what BOM needs., if that input data changes then we have to add 
and go back and build more. 
Eleiminate if then loop by finishing pdm validation we have a contract for. It's a extreme 
simplification 
Right now we get specs and spec step is a formlua step number is how steps are set. If specright 
comes up with a new way of doing it then now bom portal requirements, 7 different version for 
the spec steps. Behavioral changes
We have to preserve existing boms then we have no way to do so at a whole it could be seemless 
based on how we treat it upstream, it could all be retrieved from the same API. PDM is in the lake 
depending on GSM we could handle in eapi to look at the right table to pull in the right 
information when you call it. 
Gurantee of delivery will be more complicated this way. 
Who owns tracking risks and aligning delivery dates —Shannon? Kari? Product/Engineering?
Who defines the threshold for “live vs. stale data” in the BOM Portal?Concerns:
Dual integrations
Data in GCP pulling that together.  Integration of Specright into BOM Portal –Discussion Summary
 Current Status
Specright rollout is targeted for April at the earliest , with Master Formulation functionality projected to 
be complete by March .•
A “contract” has been loosely defined: Specright will provide exactly what BOM Portal needs. •
Andre and Shannon emphasized the need to maintain consistency and regulatory compliance. •
Data will come from two sources : GSM and Specright. BOM Portal currently reconciles back to GSM due 
to its inconsistent interface reliability.•
Kari noted that data will continue to flow into GCP, allowing BOM Portal to ingest it similarly to today’s 
method.•
Timeline is not backed by formal BRD or planning efforts —it was “pulled out of thin air.” •
We're still figuring out what the design will look like for spec right•
If theres som•
   ey Risks and Concerns
Data Consistency1.
Without a transition rule , formulation consistency is not guaranteed. •
A new Specright model for spec steps may result in up to 7 behavioral versions in BOM Portal. •
Interface Complexity2.
It’s not a simple case of pointing BOM Portal to a new source —it must preserve existing behavior , 
legacy data , and contractual expectations .•
Split Architecture?3.
If PLM doesn’t deliver a single, consistent GCP interface , BOM Portal may need to split into two 
behavior paths or even separate environments .•
Data Freshness4.
If BOM Portal can't consume or monetize the data, it becomes stale . Live/stale definitions are unclear. •
Formula Step Alignment5.
Existing BOMs rely on step numbers from GSM specs. If Specright changes the logic, BOM Portal may 
need new ingestion logic or transformation layers.•
Cost and Exposure6.
Some enterprise plants (e.g., poultry + prepared) share BOMs, but PLM is one -directional . There's no 
investment or plan to push data the other way or decommission old systems.•
API Contract Assumptions7.
It’s assumed that GCP will expose a unified API/data view and that BOM Portal can adapt accordingly —
this is an oversimplification unless validated•
•
 Action Items
✅Finalize the contract: Document exact fields, structure, validation rules for Specright → BOM Portal. •
✅Update BRD and functional specs to reflect dual -source scenarios and transition logic. •
✅Define cutover criteria and fallback strategy if Specright delivery is delayed or data is malformed. •
✅Establish upstream API logic to read from appropriate PDM/GSM source tables based on material, 
plant, and recipe type.•
❓Open Questions
Topic Question
Ownership Who owns tracking risks and aligning delivery dates —Shannon, Kari, or 
Product/Engineering?
Staleness Who defines the threshold for “live vs. stale” data in BOM Portal?
Contract 
EnforcementWhat happens if Specright changes how spec steps or formulations are structured?
Split Deployment Is there a plan to split BOM Portal logic by product line (e.g., poultry vs. prepared)? 
If so, who manages the divergence?
Ingestion Logic Will BOM Portal ingest both GSM and Specright data simultaneously during a 
transition period?
Validation 
StrategyHow is PDM validation being finalized before Specright go -live? Who signs off?
Data Governance Will all formulation/spec data be guaranteed to land in GCP consistently, or do we 
need ETL failover or backfill plans?Meeting 6/20/25
Friday, June 20, 2025 1:33 PM
   BOM -Specright Page 41    
### Response:
### BOM Portal Overview and Training Guide
#### High -Level Overview of BOM Portal
The BOM (Bill of Materials) Portal is a centralized platform designed to streamline the creation, 
management, and integration of BOMs across various systems within an organization. It provides a 
structured and efficient way to handle BOM data, ensuring consistency and accuracy in production and 
costing processes.
#### Functional Aspects of BOM Portal
1. **Creation and Management of BOMs:**
   -Users can create, edit, and manage BOMs efficiently within the portal. The creation process involves 
navigating to the 'Create BOM' section, filling in required fields such as BOM name, description, and 
components, and saving the entry.
2. **Integration with Other Systems:**
   -The portal integrates with other enterprise systems like ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning) and PLM 
(Product Lifecycle Management), facilitating seamless data exchange and process automation.
3. **User Roles and Permissions:**
   -Different user roles and permissions ensure secure and controlled access to the portal, allowing users 
to perform specific tasks based on their roles.
4. **Version Control:**
   -The portal maintains version control for all BOMs, creating a new version each time a BOM is 
updated. This allows users to track changes over time.
5. **Search and Filter Options:**
   -Users can quickly locate specific BOMs using the search bar and filter options, which can be applied 
based on various criteria such as date, components, and status.
6. **Reporting and Analytics:**
   -Robust reporting and analytics features enable users to generate reports on BOM usage, component 
costs, and other metrics to gain insights into operations.
#### Best Practices for Using the BOM Portal
-**Data Entry:** Ensure accurate and efficient data entry to maintain the integrity of BOMs.
-**Consistency:** Use standardized naming conventions and formats to maintain consistency across What is BOM Portal?
Thursday, May 08, 2025 2:11 PM
   My KT Page 42    
-**Consistency:** Use standardized naming conventions and formats to maintain consistency across 
BOMs.
-**Security:** Follow security protocols to protect sensitive information within the portal.
#### Training Guide
1. **Introduction to BOM Portal:**
   -Provide an overview of the portal's purpose and functionalities.
2. **Navigating the Portal:**
   -Guide users through the interface, highlighting key sections like 'Create BOM', 'Manage BOMs', and 
reporting tools.
3. **Creating and Managing BOMs:**
   -Step -by-step instructions on how to create, edit, and update BOMs, including version control 
practices.
4. **Utilizing Search and Filter Functions:**
   -Demonstrate how to effectively use search and filter tools to manage and locate BOMs.
5. **Generating Reports:**
   -Instructions on how to generate and interpret reports for better decision -making.
6. **Security and User Management:**
   -Outline procedures for managing user roles and permissions, ensuring secure access to the portal.
7. **Best Practices and Q&A:**
   -Discuss best practices for using the portal and open the floor for questions to clarify any doubts.
#### Conclusion
The BOM Portal serves as a vital tool for managing BOMs, ensuring consistent and accurate data across 
production and costing processes. Proper training and adherence to best practices can greatly enhance 
the efficiency and effectiveness of its use.
### Input Files Utilized:
-Greg @ Work.pdf
### Output Files Generated:
-Generated Files
### Next Steps or Recommendations:
   My KT Page 43    
### Next Steps or Recommendations:
-Conduct regular training sessions to keep users updated on new features and best practices.
-Implement a feedback mechanism to continuously improve the portal's functionality and user 
experience
   My KT Page 44    
1. Purpose of the BOM Portal
The BOM Portal is Tyson Foods’ central application for creating, managing, validating, and submitting 
Bills of Materials (BOMs) used in both production and financial processes. It provides a structured 
interface that enables cost accounting, supply chain, and technical teams to define and maintain 
accurate recipe structures across plants.
The BOM Portal bridges the gap between upstream formulation systems such as PDM (Product Data 
Management) and PLM (Product Lifecycle Management) and downstream execution systems such as 
SAP, where final BOMs are consumed for manufacturing, costing, and inventory planning.
Primary Objectives
1.1 Standardized BOM Management
Enables structured creation and publishing of Bills of Materials specific to plant, material, BOM type 
(Production, Finance, Engineering, AOP), and cost center.•
Supports version control by allowing users to create new versions upon changes rather than overwriting 
existing BOMs.•
Enforces data entry consistency for step sequencing, component assignments, inventory points, and 
yields.•
1.2 Integration with Enterprise Systems
Receives formulation input from upstream systems like PDM and PLM, often via scheduled payloads. •
Submits finalized BOMs to SAP using backend remote function calls (RFCs) triggered from within the 
portal after passing internal validation checks.•
Ensures synchronization across PDM, PLM, and SAP through scheduled spec change processing and 
reconciliation.•
1.3 Plant -Specific Configuration
Allows for local BOM variations to be built off corporate formulations, such as alternate ingredient 
routing or yield percentages based on plant -specific processes.•
Supports toggles such as “Override  ormulation” and “Use Global Scrap” for managing exceptions at the 
plant level.•
1.4 Spec Change Tracking
Automatically flags affected BOMs with a "Spec Change" status when formulation updates are received 
from PDM.•
Prompts users to review and update impacted BOMs to maintain alignment with current specifications.•
Uses NService to receive weekly spec update notifications and apply them programmatically where 
applicable.•
1.5 Version Control
Tracks BOMs at the version level, preserving published versions while allowing users to create and edit 
new drafts.•
Each BOM version has a unique version number but must be reviewed individually —no full audit log or 
history comparison exists in the UI.•
Versioning supports downstream traceability for SAP submissions and formulation governance.•
System Architecture Overview
The BOM Portal is a web -based application that integrates multiple enterprise systems to manage the 
lifecycle of Bills of Materials at Tyson Foods. Its architecture is designed to support structured 
formulation, plant -level customization, version control, and integration with external systems such as 
PDM, PLM, and SAP. While the interface is user -friendly for business teams, the backend supports 
robust, event -driven workflows and system -to-system communication for developers and technical 
stakeholders.
2.1 High -Level Architecture Flow
css
CopyEdit
[ PDM / PLM ] → [ BOM Portal ] → [ SAP ]
                     ↓
               [ ESP / Power BI ]
PDM (Product Data Management): Source of truth for formulation specifications.•
PLM (Product Lifecycle Management): Sends official formulation payloads.•
BOM Portal : Receives, transforms, and manages formulation data into versioned BOMs. •
SAP: Consumes finalized BOMs for cost accounting, inventory control, and production execution.•
ESP: Engineering systems that support crewing and production setup.•
Power BI : Reporting layer for reconciliation and performance tracking. •
2.2 Frontend Framework
Built using AngularJS (legacy version), providing dynamic page rendering and form -based input 
validation.•
Features include:•
Step -by-step BOM editor •
Component and step grids•
Real -time toggles for formulation overrides and global scrap•
Version selection dropdowns•
2.3 Backend Services
Written in C# / .NET Framework . •
Microservices handle:•
Data transformations from PLM•
Spec change alerts via NService•
SAP submission packaging•
Version and status management•
SignalR enables live communication between the frontend and backend (e.g., syncing materials, 
updating status in real time).•
API endpoints exist for:•
Material and plant lookup•
BOM creation and publishing•
SAP status polling•
2.4 Database Layer
MySQL is the primary data store for all BOM -related data. •
Tables include:•
recipe_current•
plant_material_xref_current•
component_edit_audit•
bom_version•Tyson Foods -Legacy BOM Portal Training Manual
1. Purpose of the BOM Portal
The BOM Portal is Tyson  oods’ central application for creating, managing, validating, and submitting 
Bills of Materials (BOMs) used in both production and financial processes. It provides a structured 
interface that enables cost accounting, supply chain, and technical teams to define and maintain 
accurate recipe structures across plants.
The BOM Portal bridges the gap between upstream formulation systems such as PDM (Product Data 
Management) and PLM (Product Lifecycle Management) and downstream execution systems such as 
SAP, where final BOMs are consumed for manufacturing, costing, and inventory planning.
Primary Objectives
1.1 Standardized BOM Management
Enables structured creation and publishing of Bills of Materials specific to plant, material, BOM 
type (Production, Finance, Engineering, AOP), and cost center.•
Supports version control by allowing users to create new versions upon changes rather than 
overwriting existing BOMs.•
Enforces data entry consistency for step sequencing, component assignments, inventory points, 
and yields.•
1.2 Integration with Enterprise Systems
Receives formulation input from upstream systems like PDM and PLM, often via scheduled 
payloads.•
Submits finalized BOMs to SAP using backend remote function calls (RFCs) triggered from within 
the portal after passing internal validation checks.•
Ensures synchronization across PDM, PLM, and SAP through scheduled spec change processing 
and reconciliation.•
1.3 Plant -Specific Configuration
Allows for local BOM variations to be built off corporate formulations, such as alternate ingredient 
routing or yield percentages based on plant -specific processes.•
Supports toggles such as “Override  ormulation” and “Use Global Scrap” for managing exceptions 
at the plant level.•
1.4 Spec Change Tracking
Automatically flags affected BOMs with a "Spec Change" status when formulation updates are 
received from PDM.•
Prompts users to review and update impacted BOMs to maintain alignment with current 
specifications.•
Uses NService to receive weekly spec update notifications and apply them programmatically 
where applicable.•
1.5 Version Control
Tracks BOMs at the version level, preserving published versions while allowing users to create and 
edit new drafts.•
Each BOM version has a unique version number but must be reviewed individually —no full audit 
log or history comparison exists in the UI.•
Versioning supports downstream traceability for SAP submissions and formulation governance.•
System Architecture Overview
The BOM Portal is a web -based application that integrates multiple enterprise systems to manage the 
lifecycle of Bills of Materials at Tyson Foods. Its architecture is designed to support structured 
formulation, plant -level customization, version control, and integration with external systems such as 
PDM, PLM, and SAP. While the interface is user -friendly for business teams, the backend supports 
robust, event -driven workflows and system -to-system communication for developers and technical 
stakeholders.
2.1 High -Level Architecture Flow
CSS
[ PDM / PLM ] → [ BOM Portal ] → [ SAP ]
    ↓
[ ESP / Power BI ]
PDM (Product Data Management): Source of truth for formulation specifications.•
PLM (Product Lifecycle Management): Sends official formulation payloads.•
BOM Portal : Receives, transforms, and manages formulation data into versioned BOMs. •
SAP: Consumes finalized BOMs for cost accounting, inventory control, and production execution.•
ESP: Engineering systems that support crewing and production setup.•
Power BI : Reporting layer for reconciliation and performance tracking. •
2.2 Frontend Framework
Built using AngularJS (legacy version), providing dynamic page rendering and form -based input 
validation.•
Features include: 
Step -by-step BOM editor •
Component and step grids•
Real -time toggles for formulation overrides and global scrap•
Version selection dropdowns••
2.3 Backend Services
Written in C# / .NET Framework . •
Microservices handle: 
Data transformations from PLM•
Spec change alerts via NService •
SAP submission packaging•
Version and status management••
SignalR enables live communication between the frontend and backend (e.g., syncing materials, 
updating status in real time).•
API endpoints exist for: 
Material and plant lookup•
BOM creation and publishing•
SAP status polling••
2.4 Database Layer
MySQL is the primary data store for all BOM -related data. •
Tables include: 
recipe_current•
plant_material_xref_current•
component_edit_audit•
bom_version•
material_current••
MySQL is accessed via BigQuery federated queries in GCP for reporting and validation. •Thursday, May 08, 2025 2:30 PM
   My KT Page 45    
2.4 Database Layer
MySQL is the primary data store for all BOM -related data. •
Tables include:•
recipe_current•
plant_material_xref_current•
component_edit_audit•
bom_version•
material_current•
MySQL is accessed via BigQuery federated queries in GCP for reporting and validation. •
Material ingestion and reconciliation logic are often validated between GCP datasets and the MySQL 
tables.•
2.5 Event and Notification Handling
NService : Message bus that delivers notifications (e.g., spec changes from PDM). •
Redis Cache : Supports caching of session data and connection tokens. •
SignalR Events : Handle async calls like material sync, SAP submission status updates, and user 
notifications.•
Splunk : Used for centralized logging of API events, errors, and spec change message failures. •
2.6 Environments and Promotion Process
Environments:•
DEV , QA, SBX, PROD •
Data flows downstream from PDM → PLM → BOM Portal in each environment. •
Changes are promoted using CHaRM or CAB -controlled transports, especially for SAP integrations. •
Developers test backend and UI changes in DEV and QA, then validate data integrity in SBX before 
production deployment.•
2.7 Roles of Development Team
Maintain and enhance existing backend services (C#, MySQL queries, API endpoints).•
Build and test SignalR events and real -time sync features. •
Support SAP submission integrity and debug reconciliation issues.•
Log and monitor failures using Splunk and work with InfraSec if async failures occur.•
Ensure business logic aligns with cost accounting and formulation rules.•
3. Key Entities and Data Structure
Understanding the core entities in the BOM Portal is essential for developers supporting its 
functionality. The system is designed around the relationships between materials, plants, cost centers, 
and formulations, all organized through a layered Bill of Materials structure.
3.1 Core Data Hierarchy
At its core, the BOM Portal operates through a three -tier hierarchy:
Formulation1.
BOM Template2.
BOM Version3.
Each of these layers ties into plant and material -specific configurations and supports versioning, 
validation, and SAP submission.
3.2 Key Entities
3.2.1 Material
Represents the finished good, raw material, or intermediate item being produced.•
Pulled from the authoritative material master.•
Contains data such as:•
MATERIAL_NUM•
MATERIAL_DESCR•
MATERIAL_TYPE (FERT, ROH, etc.) •
Linked to cost centers and inventory points.•
3.2.2 Recipe
A legacy concept within the BOM Portal representing a set of steps and components.•
Recipes were previously used as the working structure before formal BOMs were introduced.•
Still used internally in the backend and ties into historical records.•
3.2.3 BOM Template
A reusable structure used to define the overall flow of production for a material.•
Tied to:•
One material ID•
One or more plants •
A cost center•
Defines:•
Steps (phases of production)•
Yield structure•
Phantom BOM behavior•
Flags such as Driver, Override Formulation, and Use Global Scrap•
3.2.4 BOM Version
Represents a snapshot of a BOM Template at a point in time.•
Each time a change is made (e.g., a component update, step change), a new version is created.•
Statuses include:•
Edit–Unpublished draft •
Published –Live BOM submitted to SAP •
Spec Change –Awaiting user action after a formulation update •
Terminated –No longer active •
Includes effective dates, SAP version number, and validation metadata.•
3.2.5 Step
Defines a specific phase in production or assembly.•
Each step contains:•
Components (materials/resources)•
Step yield %•
Optional: Labeling as critical or phantom•
3.2.6 Component
A raw material, packaging item, or resource assigned to a step.•
Fields include:•
Component ID and type (ROH, VERP, etc.)•
Quantity and UoM•
Inventory point (e.g., ZFG, ZSWP)•
Cost relevance (stock vs. non -stock) •
3.3 Cross -Reference Entities
Plant
Represents the physical manufacturing facility.•Tables include: 
recipe_current•
plant_material_xref_current•
component_edit_audit•
bom_version•
material_current••
MySQL is accessed via BigQuery federated queries in GCP for reporting and validation. •
Material ingestion and reconciliation logic are often validated between GCP datasets and the 
MySQL tables.•
2.5 Event and Notification Handling
NService : Message bus that delivers notifications (e.g., spec changes from PDM). •
Redis Cache : Supports caching of session data and connection tokens. •
SignalR Events : Handle async calls like material sync, SAP submission status updates, and user 
notifications.•
Splunk : Used for centralized logging of API events, errors, and spec change message failures. •
2.6 Environments and Promotion Process
Environments : 
DEV, QA, SBX, PROD••
Data flows downstream from PDM → PLM → BOM Portal in each environment. •
Changes are promoted using CHaRM or CAB -controlled transports, especially for SAP integrations. •
Developers test backend and UI changes in DEV and QA, then validate data integrity in SBX before 
production deployment.•
2.7 Roles of Development Team
Maintain and enhance existing backend services (C#, MySQL queries, API endpoints).•
Build and test SignalR events and real -time sync features. •
Support SAP submission integrity and debug reconciliation issues.•
Log and monitor failures using Splunk and work with InfraSec if async failures occur. •
Ensure business logic aligns with cost accounting and formulation rules.•
3. Key Entities and Data Structure
Understanding the core entities in the BOM Portal is essential for developers supporting its 
functionality. The system is designed around the relationships between materials, plants, cost centers, 
and formulations, all organized through a layered Bill of Materials structure.
3.1 Core Data Hierarchy
At its core, the BOM Portal operates through a three -tier hierarchy:
Formulation•
BOM Template•
BOM Version•
Each of these layers ties into plant and material -specific configurations and supports versioning, 
validation, and SAP submission.
3.2 Key Entities
3.2.1 Material
Represents the finished good, raw material, or intermediate item being produced.•
Pulled from the authoritative material master.•
Contains data such as: 
MATERIAL_NUM•
MATERIAL_DESCR•
MATERIAL_TYPE (FERT, ROH, etc.) ••
Linked to cost centers and inventory points.•
3.2.2 Recipe
A legacy concept within the BOM Portal representing a set of steps and components.•
Recipes were previously used as the working structure before formal BOMs were introduced.•
Still used internally in the backend and ties into historical records.•
3.2.3 BOM Template
A reusable structure used to define the overall flow of production for a material.•
Tied to: 
One material ID•
One or more plants •
A cost center••
Defines: 
Steps (phases of production)•
Yield structure•
Phantom BOM behavior•
Flags such as Driver, Override Formulation, and Use Global Scrap••
3.2.4 BOM Version
Represents a snapshot of a BOM Template at a point in time.•
Each time a change is made (e.g., a component update, step change), a new version is created.•
Statuses include: 
Edit–Unpublished draft •
Published –Live BOM submitted to SAP •
Spec Change –Awaiting user action after a formulation update •
Terminated –No longer active ••
Includes effective dates, SAP version number, and validation metadata.•
3.2.5 Step
Defines a specific phase in production or assembly.•
Each step contains: 
Components (materials/resources)•
Step yield %•
Optional: Labeling as critical or phantom••
3.2.6 Component
A raw material, packaging item, or resource assigned to a step.•
Fields include: 
Component ID and type (ROH, VERP, etc.)•
Quantity and UoM•
Inventory point (e.g., ZFG, ZSWP)•
Cost relevance (stock vs. non -stock) ••
3.3 Cross -Reference Entities
Plant 
Represents the physical manufacturing facility.•
Mapped in plant_material_xref_current to the materials and BOMs it supports. ••
Cost Center 
Financial identifier that controls how costs are tracked and rolled up.•
Required for every BOM submission to SAP.••
Inventory Points 
Nodes in the production flow where material enters or exits a phase (e.g., ZFG for Finished 
Goods, ZSWP for Saleable WIP).•
Used to manage visibility and flow of material in SAP and cost reports.••
   My KT Page 46    
Cost relevance (stock vs. non -stock) •
3.3 Cross -Reference Entities
Plant
Represents the physical manufacturing facility.•
Mapped in plant_material_xref_current to the materials and BOMs it supports. •
Cost Center
Financial identifier that controls how costs are tracked and rolled up.•
Required for every BOM submission to SAP.•
Inventory Points
Nodes in the production flow where material enters or exits a phase (e.g., ZFG for Finished Goods, ZSWP 
for Saleable WIP).•
Used to manage visibility and flow of material in SAP and cost reports.•
3.4 Data Sources and Tables (MySQL)
Table Name Purpose
recipe_current Stores current recipe records (precursor to BOMs)
plant_material_xref_current Links materials to plants
material_current Stores master data for materials
component_edit_audit Tracks changes to components in steps
recipe_formulation_xref_current Maps formulation to recipe entities
component_step_current Defines component placement in steps
bom_version (internal table) Tracks version metadata for published BOMs
4. BOM Creation and Management (Legacy BOM Portal)
In the legacy BOM Portal , the process of creating and managing BOMs is structured around templates 
and version control. BOMs are configured at the plant -material level, tied to a cost center and BOM 
type, and represent the formal structure used for production or financial costing in SAP.
4.1 Accessing BOM Creation
There is no standalone “Create BOM” button in the legacy interface.
Instead, users navigate to the Manage BOMs or Manage Versions section from the main menu or 
landing screen. BOM creation typically starts by:
Selecting a plant and material •
Choosing a BOM Type (Production, Finance, Engineering, AOP) •
Selecting or creating a cost center mapping •
Using the “Create Version” button (if visible) or initiating from an existing template •
4.2 Defining the BOM Template
The template defines the structural framework of the BOM. When creating a new BOM version:
The system may prefill data if a formulation exists in PDM/PLM for that material•
Users define:•
Steps (each representing a phase in production)•
Components for each step (raw materials, packaging, labor, etc.) •
Formulation overrides can be enabled if needed per plant •
Global scrap can be toggled on/off based on material group rules •
The template does not support cloning in bulk but can be manually duplicated by selecting similar 
existing BOMs and copying their setup.
4.3 Step and Component Configuration
Each step includes:
A label or sequence number•
Yield percentage (must total to 100%)•
Option to assign a phantom flag (if used in multi -level BOMs) •
Each component within a step includes:
Material number (selected from material master)•
Quantity and unit of measure•
Inventory point (e.g., ZFG, ZSWP)•
Type: stock, non -stock, packaging, or resource •
Component grids are editable in the UI and validated at save.
4.4 Versioning and Status Flow
In the legacy BOM Portal, each change to a BOM results in a new version . Versions do not overwrite 
previous ones.
Version statuses include:
Edit–Draft or in -progress BOM •
Published –Active version used for SAP submission •
Spec Change –Triggered when upstream formulation changes are detected •
Terminated –Inactive version, manually deactivated by user •
There is no side -by-side version comparison or visual change tracking within the UI.
4.5 Publishing the BOM
When a BOM version is ready:
The user clicks “Publish” •
The system performs internal validation:•
Step yields = 100%•
Required fields (plant, cost center, material) are present•
Component entries are valid•
Upon success, the BOM is marked Published and can be submitted to SAP manually or via the 
submission queue•
4.6 Managing Existing BOMs
From the Manage Versions page, users can:
Filter BOMs by plant, material, cost center, status, or BOM type•
View and edit individual versions (only one version at a time)•Financial identifier that controls how costs are tracked and rolled up.•
Required for every BOM submission to SAP.•
Inventory Points 
Nodes in the production flow where material enters or exits a phase (e.g., ZFG for Finished 
Goods, ZSWP for Saleable WIP).•
Used to manage visibility and flow of material in SAP and cost reports.••
3.4 Data Sources and Tables (MySQL)
Table Name Purpose
recipe_current Stores current recipe records (precursor to BOMs)
plant_material_xref_current Links materials to plants
material_current Stores master data for materials
component_edit_audit Tracks changes to components in steps
recipe_formulation_xref_current Maps formulation to recipe entities
component_step_current Defines component placement in steps
bom_version (internal table) Tracks version metadata for published BOMs
Export to Sheets
4. BOM Creation and Management (Legacy BOM Portal)
In the legacy BOM Portal , the process of creating and managing BOMs is structured around templates 
and version control. BOMs are configured at the plant -material level, tied to a cost center and BOM 
type, and represent the formal structure used for production or financial costing in SAP.
4.1 Accessing BOM Creation
There is no standalone “Create BOM” button in the legacy interface. •
Instead, users navigate to the Manage BOMs or Manage Versions section from the main menu or 
landing screen. BOM creation typically starts by: 
Selecting a plant and material •
Choosing a BOM Type (Production, Finance, Engineering, AOP) •
Selecting or creating a cost center mapping •
Using the “Create Version” button (if visible) or initiating from an existing template ••
4.2 Defining the BOM Template
The template defines the structural framework of the BOM. When creating a new BOM version:
The system may prefill data if a formulation exists in PDM/PLM for that material•
Users define: 
Steps (each representing a phase in production)•
Components for each step (raw materials, packaging, labor, etc.) •
Formulation overrides can be enabled if needed per plant •
Global scrap can be toggled on/off based on material group rules ••
The template does not support cloning in bulk but can be manually duplicated by selecting similar 
existing BOMs and copying their setup.•
4.3 Step and Component Configuration
Each step includes:
A label or sequence number•
Yield percentage (must total to 100%)•
Option to assign a phantom flag (if used in multi -level BOMs) •
Each component within a step includes:
Material number (selected from material master)•
Quantity and unit of measure•
Inventory point (e.g., ZFG, ZSWP)•
Type: stock, non -stock, packaging, or resource •
Component grids are editable in the UI and validated at save.•
4.4 Versioning and Status Flow
In the legacy BOM Portal, each change to a BOM results in a new version . Versions do not overwrite 
previous ones.
Version statuses include: 
Edit–Draft or in -progress BOM •
Published –Active version used for SAP submission •
Spec Change –Triggered when upstream formulation changes are detected •
Terminated –Inactive version, manually deactivated by user ••
There is no side -by-side version comparison or visual change tracking within the UI. •
4.5 Publishing the BOM
When a BOM version is ready:
The user clicks “Publish” •
The system performs internal validation: 
Step yields = 100%•
Required fields (plant, cost center, material) are present•
Component entries are valid••
Upon success, the BOM is marked Published and can be submitted to SAP manually or via the 
submission queue•
4.6 Managing Existing BOMs
From the Manage Versions page, users can:
Filter BOMs by plant, material, cost center, status, or BOM type•
View and edit individual versions (only one version at a time)•
Terminate versions no longer in use•
Create a new version based on a prior one by using the version dropdown or manual recreation•
There is no audit log or centralized history tab —users must check version numbers and 
timestamps individually.•
4.7 Developer Considerations
BOM creation and edits update the following MySQL tables: 
recipe_current•
component_step_current•
plant_material_xref_current••
Publishing triggers backend logic to assign version numbers and flag readiness for SAP submission•
SAP submission status is tracked in the SAP submission table or status queue•
Version data is not stored as diffs —each version is a full data snapshot •
5. Spec Change Handling (Legacy BOM Portal)
Specification changes (spec changes) are a critical function in the BOM Portal. They ensure that the Bills 
of Materials remain synchronized with official formulation data maintained in PDM and PLM . The legacy 
BOM Portal includes automated and manual workflows to detect, flag, and address formulation changes 
that impact existing BOMs.
5.1 Overview of Spec Changes
Spec changes originate from PDM (Product Data Management), where formulation updates are 
maintained.•
These changes are pushed to the BOM Portal through PLM as structured data payloads. •
   My KT Page 47    
4.6 Managing Existing BOMs
From the Manage Versions page, users can:
Filter BOMs by plant, material, cost center, status, or BOM type•
View and edit individual versions (only one version at a time)•
Terminate versions no longer in use•
Create a new version based on a prior one by using the version dropdown or manual recreation•
There is no audit log or centralized history tab —users must check version numbers and timestamps 
individually.
4.7 Developer Considerations
BOM creation and edits update the following MySQL tables:•
recipe_current•
component_step_current•
plant_material_xref_current•
Publishing triggers backend logic to assign version numbers and flag readiness for SAP submission•
SAP submission status is tracked in the SAP submission table or status queue•
Version data is not stored as diffs —each version is a full data snapshot •
5. Spec Change Handling (Legacy BOM Portal)
Specification changes (spec changes) are a critical function in the BOM Portal. They ensure that the Bills 
of Materials remain synchronized with official formulation data maintained in PDM and PLM . The legacy 
BOM Portal includes automated and manual workflows to detect, flag, and address formulation changes 
that impact existing BOMs.
5.1 Overview of Spec Changes
Spec changes originate from PDM (Product Data Management), where formulation updates are 
maintained.•
These changes are pushed to the BOM Portal through PLM as structured data payloads. •
A messaging service called NService delivers weekly updates notifying the BOM Portal of formulation 
updates.•
If a BOM in the system is impacted by a formulation update, it is automatically flagged with the status 
"Spec Change."•
5.2 Status: Spec Change
When a BOM version is impacted by an upstream formulation change:
Its status transitions from Published to Spec Change •
This status indicates that the BOM is no longer aligned with the current formulation and requires user 
review•
Users cannot re -submit the BOM to SAP until the spec change is resolved •
This ensures that outdated or misaligned BOMs do not propagate to SAP and cause data integrity issues.
5.3 How Users Resolve Spec Changes
In the legacy UI:
Navigate to the Manage Versions section 4.
Locate BOMs with status “Spec Change” 5.
Open the affected BOM version6.
Review the formulation updates (users often must refer to PLM or external documentation to identify 
exact changes)7.
Apply any required changes manually:8.
Adjust component quantities•
Add or remove steps or materials•
Save and re -publish the BOM to return it to Published status 9.
Note: There is no built -in comparison tool in the legacy portal to highlight what specifically changed. 
Users must perform this analysis manually.
5.4 System Behavior and Developer Triggers
From a backend/system perspective:
The spec change notification is delivered through NService •
The BOM Portal service reads the message and identifies the impacted BOMs•
A flag is set at the version level to mark the BOM as "Spec Change"•
This change may trigger updates in the recipe_current or component_step_current tables •
If NService fails to deliver or process a message, developers may troubleshoot the issue using:
Splunk logs•
SAP submission queues•
Manual review of mismatched data between BOM Portal and PLM•
5.5 Monitoring and Reconciliation
To ensure all spec changes are addressed:
A weekly reconciliation process compares BOM Portal data to formulation data in PLM/PDM •
Power BI reports are sometimes used to assist business users in identifying unmatched records•
Developers may be called on to assist with discrepancies, especially where payload mismatches or failed 
syncs are suspected•
5.6 Known Limitations in Legacy System
No visual diff tool for before/after comparisons•
No mass spec change approval or bulk update functionality•
Users must review each impacted BOM manually•
Delays in NService delivery may cause inconsistent spec change triggers•
6. SAP Integration (Legacy BOM Portal)
One of the core functions of the legacy BOM Portal is to submit finalized and validated BOMs to SAP, 
Tyson’s enterprise system for production planning, inventory management, and cost accounting. The 
submission to SAP is a controlled process that ensures each BOM is compliant, complete, and tied to a 
specific plant, material, and cost center.
6.1 Purpose of SAP SubmissionBOM Portal includes automated and manual workflows to detect, flag, and address formulation changes 
that impact existing BOMs.
5.1 Overview of Spec Changes
Spec changes originate from PDM (Product Data Management), where formulation updates are 
maintained.•
These changes are pushed to the BOM Portal through PLM as structured data payloads. •
A messaging service called NService delivers weekly updates notifying the BOM Portal of 
formulation updates.•
If a BOM in the system is impacted by a formulation update, it is automatically flagged with the 
status "Spec Change."•
5.2 Status: Spec Change
When a BOM version is impacted by an upstream formulation change:
Its status transitions from Published to Spec Change •
This status indicates that the BOM is no longer aligned with the current formulation and requires 
user review•
Users cannot re -submit the BOM to SAP until the spec change is resolved •
This ensures that outdated or misaligned BOMs do not propagate to SAP and cause data integrity 
issues.•
5.3 How Users Resolve Spec Changes
In the legacy UI:
Navigate to the Manage Versions section •
Locate BOMs with status “Spec Change” •
Open the affected BOM version•
Review the formulation updates (users often must refer to PLM or external documentation to 
identify exact changes)•
Apply any required changes manually: 
Adjust component quantities•
Add or remove steps or materials••
Save and re -publish the BOM to return it to Published status •
Note: There is no built -in comparison tool in the legacy portal to highlight what specifically 
changed. Users must perform this analysis manually.•
5.4 System Behavior and Developer Triggers
From a backend/system perspective:
The spec change notification is delivered through NService •
The BOM Portal service reads the message and identifies the impacted BOMs•
A flag is set at the version level to mark the BOM as "Spec Change"•
This change may trigger updates in the recipe_current or component_step_current tables •
If NService fails to deliver or process a message, developers may troubleshoot the issue using: 
Splunk logs•
SAP submission queues•
Manual review of mismatched data between BOM Portal and PLM••
5.5 Monitoring and Reconciliation
To ensure all spec changes are addressed:
A weekly reconciliation process compares BOM Portal data to formulation data in PLM/PDM •
Power BI reports are sometimes used to assist business users in identifying unmatched records•
Developers may be called on to assist with discrepancies, especially where payload mismatches or 
failed syncs are suspected•
5.6 Known Limitations in Legacy System
No visual diff tool for before/after comparisons•
•
   My KT Page 48    
6.1 Purpose of SAP Submission
BOMs submitted from the BOM Portal to SAP enable:
Production scheduling using SAP PP -PI (Process Industries) •
Costing and pricing using SAP Actual Costing (CO -PC) •
Material consumption and inventory visibility in SAP systems•
Only Published BOMs are eligible for SAP submission. BOMs in Edit, Spec Change, or Terminated status 
cannot be submitted.
6.2 SAP Submission Process
User Action 10.
A user selects a Published BOM Version from the Manage Versions view •
Clicks “Submit to SAP” (button available only if version passes internal validations) •
Validation Checks 11.
The system validates:•
Required fields (material number, plant, cost center, BOM type)•
Effective date is current or future -dated •
Component data is complete and valid•
Step yield equals 100%•
If validation fails, submission is blocked and the user receives an error message•
RFC Trigger 12.
Upon passing validation, a Remote Function Call (RFC) is executed to SAP •
BOM data is sent to SAP using a structured payload format•
SAP assigns a BOM number ( STLNR ) and confirms submission •
Response Handling 13.
The response from SAP is recorded in the system (success or failure)•
If successful, the SAP BOM Number is stored•
If failed, the error message is logged and displayed to the user•
6.3 Submission Interface
The submission interface in the legacy BOM Portal includes:
Submit to SAP button (visible only for valid Published versions) •
SAP Status Field (displays submitted, failed, or pending) •
Manual Retry Option if submission fails and is corrected •
There is no batch submission or queue view —each version must be submitted individually.
6.4 SAP Data Mapping
BOM Portal Field SAP Field (Mapped To)
Material Number MATNR
Plant WERKS
BOM Type STLAN
Version Number STLAL
Header Data STKO Table
Component Data STPO Table
SAP BOM Number STLNR
Cost Center Internal ZPARM configuration
6.5 Developer Notes
SAP submission logic is typically handled via C# backend service methods (e.g., SubmitBOMToSAP ) •
Submissions are logged through internal tracking tables (may include sap_submission_log , 
depending on implementation)•
Failures are often related to:•
Missing plant -cost center mappings •
Duplicate component entries•
Date formatting or null fields•
ZPARM programs in SAP control how incoming BOMs are interpreted and where values are stored •
Splunk logs can be used to trace failed submissions or connection issues with SAP •
6.6 Known Limitations
No mass submission capability (each BOM must be submitted individually)•
No built -in retry scheduler for failed submissions •
Minimal user feedback beyond error messages•
Delay between submission and SAP confirmation if system is under load•
Here is Section 7: User Roles and Access Controls , tailored specifically to the legacy BOM Portal :
7. User Roles and Access Controls (Legacy BOM Portal)
Access to the BOM Portal is tightly controlled to ensure that only authorized users can view, modify, or 
publish BOMs. The legacy system uses role-based access control (RBAC) with security group mappings 
and plant -based restrictions to manage user permissions across functions.
7.1 Authentication
The legacy BOM Portal uses Okta Single Sign -On (SSO) for user authentication. •
Upon login, the user's roles and permissions are evaluated against configured Okta groups or 
application -specific roles.•
Users must be onboarded and assigned a role before gaining access to the portal.•
7.2 Role Types and Permissions
Role Description
Viewer Can view published BOMs, spec change statuses, and submission results.
Editor Can create new BOMs, edit drafts, apply formulation changes, and save versions.
Approver (e.g., Cost Accounting) Can review and publish BOMs but not edit them.
Admin Can do all the above, terminate versions, assign cost centers, and submit to SAP.
Note: Roles are cumulative —higher roles inherit the capabilities of lower roles.
   My KT Page 49    
7.3 Plant -Based Access Restrictions
Users are granted access only to specific plants . •
They can only create, view, or edit BOMs for materials associated with those plants.•
If a user attempts to access a BOM outside of their assigned plant list, the system blocks access with a 
permission error.•
This structure ensures separation of duties between regions, product lines, or operational divisions.
7.4 UI Behavior Based on Role
Feature Viewer Editor Approver Admin
View Published BOMs ✅ ✅ ✅ ✅
Create/Edit Draft BOMs ❌ ✅ ❌ ✅
Publish BOMs ❌ ❌ ✅ ✅
Terminate BOM Versions ❌ ❌ ❌ ✅
Submit BOM to SAP ❌ ❌ ❌ ✅
Modify Cost Center Assignments ❌ ❌ ❌ ✅
7.5 Role Assignment and Support
Role assignment is typically managed by the BOM Portal administrator or IT support team.•
Requests for role changes or plant access are handled via internal ticketing (e.g., ServiceNow).•
Roles may also be stored and validated against internal user tables within the BOM Portal database, 
depending on the version.•
7.6 Developer Considerations
Roles and permissions are enforced both in the frontend UI and the backend API layer . •
Backend services include checks for:•
Role validation before allowing POST or PUT actions•
Plant access validation to prevent cross -site data exposure •
Developers should never bypass role checks, even for admin -level scripts. •
Would you like to move on to Section 8: Reconciliation and Data Validation next?
Here is Section 8: Reconciliation and Data Validation , specifically for the legacy BOM Portal :
8. Reconciliation and Data Validation (Legacy BOM Portal)
The BOM Portal must ensure that the Bills of Materials it maintains are accurate, current, and aligned 
with upstream formulation data (from PDM/PLM) and downstream systems (SAP). This is achieved 
through a combination of automated data validations and manual reconciliation processes involving 
reports, backend queries, and error logging.
8.1 Purpose of Reconciliation
Reconciliation ensures:
BOMs in the portal reflect the latest formulation specs from PDM •
Submissions to SAP are complete, valid, and traceable •
Materials, cost centers, and step yields are correctly aligned •
No critical gaps exist between systems that could lead to manufacturing or costing errors•
8.2 Types of Reconciliation
1. Upstream (PDM → BOM Portal)
Checks whether formulations received from PLM match the BOM structures built in the Portal.•
Weekly spec change syncs help detect mismatches. •
Material and component -level differences must be resolved by business users manually. •
2. Downstream (BOM Portal → SAP)
Ensures that submitted BOMs:•
Match what's stored in SAP tables ( STKO , STPO , MAST ) •
Include valid STLNR (SAP BOM number)•
Are accepted by SAP with no errors•
SAP submission logs and version status are the primary feedback mechanisms.•
8.3 Validation Rules in the Portal
The legacy BOM Portal enforces several validations at time of save and publish :
Validation Rule Triggered When
Step yield must total 100% On publish
Each component must have valid material ID On save or component entry
Plant and cost center must be assigned On create
No duplicate components in same step On save
Effective date must be today or future -dated On publish or submit to SAP
Required inventory points must be assigned On component entry
If validations fail, the system blocks publish or submission actions and presents error messages to the 
user.
8.4 Manual Reconciliation Reports
Though no automated comparison screen exists in the UI, teams use Power BI reports or GCP queries to 
manually reconcile BOM data:
Compare BOM component lists with formulation data•
Identify BOMs flagged for Spec Change that haven’t been updated •
Review mismatches in material descriptions or quantities•
Validate cost center assignments across BOM versions•
These reports are typically maintained outside the BOM Portal and rely on MySQL/GCP data extracts.
8.5 Developer Support in Reconciliation
   My KT Page 50    
8.5 Developer Support in Reconciliation
Developers may assist with:
Writing or debugging reconciliation queries (e.g., join between recipe_current , 
material_current , and formulation source)•
Investigating mismatches between BOM Portal and PLM payloads•
Identifying failures in the NService delivery or spec sync logic•
Supporting business teams with one -off material audits via backend SQL •
8.6 Known Gaps in Legacy Portal
No in -app report or dashboard for full BOM comparison•
No mass update or auto -resolution for spec change mismatches •
No side -by-side version diff tool •
Manual data validation is time -consuming and requires support from analysts and developers •
Would you like to continue with Section 9: Testing and ALM Integration (Legacy Only) next?
Here is Section 9: Testing and ALM Integration , specifically for the legacy BOM Portal :
9. Testing and ALM Integration (Legacy BOM Portal)
Testing and quality assurance are critical for maintaining the stability and integrity of the BOM Portal, 
especially when deploying updates to logic tied to SAP integration, formulation structure, or cost -
sensitive processes. Tyson uses HP ALM (Application Lifecycle Management) as its primary test case 
repository and validation environment for all functional changes to the BOM Portal.
9.1 Role of ALM in BOM Portal Testing
ALM supports:
Test case authoring and execution•
Traceability between functional requirements and test coverage•
Regression suite tracking for code changes and production issues•
Formal sign -off and documentation for CAB review or SOX compliance •
9.2 Functional Testing Scope
The following areas are covered by functional test cases in ALM:
Area Tested In
BOM creation and publishing DEV, QA
SAP submission validation QA, SBX, PROD
Versioning rules DEV
Spec change flag behavior QA
Material/component validations DEV, QA
Role -based access controls DEV
Tests are typically mapped by functionality, not individual UI components.
9.3 Testing Environments
Environment Purpose
DEV Developer unit testing, early functional testing
QA Functional, integration, and regression testing
SBX (Sandbox) UAT -style validation with near -production data
PROD Production environment, only used for validation after release
Each environment has mirrored data tables, but only QAand SBX typically receive fully synced 
formulation payloads and SAP connectivity for end -to-end testing.
9.4 Developer Responsibilities
Maintain automated and manual test case coverage for any new feature or logic change.•
Collaborate with QA analysts to define test inputs, expected outputs, and validation rules.•
Ensure backend API changes or submission logic have testable criteria and clean rollback behavior.•
Write regression test scripts for recurring logic like spec change syncing or SAP error handling.•
Developers are expected to test in DEV before handing off to QA, and to assist during UAT in SBX when 
needed.
9.5 Regression Testing
A core set of regression tests is maintained for:
SAP submission logic•
Spec change detection and status updates•
Material -component assignment rules •
Yield and inventory point validations•
Regression testing is required before any deployment to PROD, especially for changes related to cost 
center logic or backend processing tied to financial reporting.
9.6 Known Testing Limitations
Some validations rely on external systems (e.g., SAP, PDM) and require manual test data staging•
No test automation framework is in place for UI testing (legacy AngularJS limits this)•
Tests for SignalR -based async updates are limited and often require manual validation •
Would you like to proceed with Section 10: Logging and Monitoring (Legacy Only) next?
Here is Section 10: Logging and Monitoring , written for the legacy BOM Portal :
10. Logging and Monitoring (Legacy BOM Portal)
Reliable logging and system monitoring are essential for ensuring uptime, diagnosing issues, and 
   My KT Page 51    
Reliable logging and system monitoring are essential for ensuring uptime, diagnosing issues, and 
maintaining traceability in the legacy BOM Portal. While the UI offers limited visibility into internal 
processes, developers and support teams rely on centralized logging tools and service -level monitors to 
detect and resolve system issues.
10.1 Logging Architecture Overview
The legacy BOM Portal uses a combination of backend application logging , real-time event tracking , 
and external log aggregation to support monitoring:
Application Logs : Captured via .NET backend logging (e.g., log4net or custom logging) •
SignalR Events : Used to monitor asynchronous operations like spec syncs or SAP submissions •
Splunk : Centralized log aggregation and search for tracking API errors, payload issues, submission 
failures, and service interruptions•
10.2 What Is Logged
Event Log Location
SAP submission request & response Splunk, backend logs
Spec change detection or failure Splunk, backend logs
Material sync issues SignalR, Splunk
Role -based access denials Application logs
Backend service failures (timeouts, 500s) Splunk
NService delivery & processing NService logs, Splunk
Logs often include:
Timestamp•
User ID•
Environment (DEV, QA, PROD)•
Material or BOM ID•
Error message or stack trace (if applicable)•
10.3 Splunk Monitoring
Splunk is the primary tool used by developers and support teams to:
Search logs by keyword, user, or date•
Correlate submission errors with backend failures•
Monitor real -time failures across environments •
Investigate discrepancies reported by business users•
Dashboards or saved searches may be maintained by infrastructure or application teams for recurring 
issues (e.g., SAP submission timeouts).
10.4 SignalR Monitoring
The legacy portal uses SignalR to power real -time notifications and status updates in the UI.
Typical SignalR events include:
“Material Sync Successful”•
“BOM Submitted to SAP”•
“Spec Change Detected”•
SignalR issues (e.g., stale connections or failure to push status) are often not logged unless backend API 
endpoints fail, making real -time validation important during testing.
10.5 Monitoring Best Practices
Always review Splunk logs when:•
A BOM fails to submit to SAP•
A spec change is expected but not flagged•
Users report missing materials or inventory points•
Use environment filters (e.g., env=QA , env=PROD ) to avoid confusion during triage •
Validate that all NService messages have been processed if spec changes are not appearing•
10.6 Known Gaps in Monitoring
No dedicated monitoring dashboard within the BOM Portal UI•
Limited in -app feedback for background failures •
SignalR failures can silently break async updates (requires manual browser refresh or backend check)•
Error handling on some backend services lacks descriptive output, requiring Splunk inspection for root 
cause•
Would you like to continue with Section 11: Development Process and DevOps (Legacy Only) next?
Here is Section 11: Development Process and DevOps , focused specifically on the legacy BOM Portal :
11. Development Process and DevOps (Legacy BOM Portal)
Maintaining and enhancing the legacy BOM Portal requires developers to work within a structured 
DevOps process that supports code quality, stable deployment, and controlled environment promotion. 
Given the portal’s integration with critical systems like SAP and PDM, all changes are thoroughly tested 
and promoted through a gated release process.
11.1 Codebase Overview
The legacy BOM Portal is built using:•
Frontend : AngularJS (legacy version) •
Backend : C# (.NET Framework) •
Database : MySQL, accessed via ADO.NET and Entity Framework •
Messaging : NService for async event handling (spec changes) •
Real -time Communication : SignalR •
Code is stored in GitLab , with repository folders typically organized by: •
UI/•
Services/•
Models/•
Controllers/•
SAPIntegration/•
Most of the critical submission logic resides in Services/ and SAPIntegration/ .
   My KT Page 52    
Most of the critical submission logic resides in Services/ and SAPIntegration/ .
11.2 Local Development and Testing
Developers are expected to:
Pull the latest code from the dev branch •
Spin up the application locally using IIS Express or Docker (where supported)•
Test features against stubbed data or QA environment APIs•
Use logging breakpoints to trace submission failures, spec processing, or material sync issues•
11.3 Environment Promotion Process
Environment Purpose
DEV Active development and unit testing
QA Full integration and functional testing
SBX UAT -style validation with near -prod data
PROD Live production environment
Code is promoted from DEV → QA → SBX → PROD •
Approval for promotion may require CAB sign -off or ALM test case completion •
Promotion Tools:
GitLab CI/CD Pipelines or internal scripts (depending on legacy setup)•
Manual deployment steps may include:•
Publishing backend services•
Deploying frontend bundles•
Syncing versioned DLLs•
Restarting IIS App Pools•
11.4 Change Control
All production -impacting changes must follow a structured process:
Requirements definition 14.
Code development in DEV 15.
Functional testing in QA 16.
Test case validation in ALM 17.
CAB approval (if needed) 18.
Deployment to PROD 19.
Any SAP -related logic or ZPARM adjustments may require:
Coordination with SAP BASIS team•
Creation of transport requests•
11.5 Developer Responsibilities
Ensure business logic follows formulation and costing rules•
Validate material and plant data access aligns with role -based controls •
Assist with QA troubleshooting and test case support•
Review and maintain SignalR updates, NService handlers, and error logging•
Contribute to reconciliation query improvements and backend validation logic•
11.6 Known Challenges in Legacy DevOps
AngularJS frontend is aging and fragile; testing is manual•
No automated unit or UI test framework•
Splunk logs may be incomplete without context from SignalR or middleware•
Environment configuration drift may cause inconsistencies in plant/material mappings•
Would you like to proceed with Section 12: Troubleshooting Common Issues (Legacy Only) ?
Here is Section 12: Troubleshooting Common Issues , specifically for the legacy BOM Portal :
12. Troubleshooting Common Issues (Legacy BOM Portal)
Due to the complexity of integrations and the aging frontend, users and developers of the legacy BOM 
Portal may encounter a variety of issues ranging from validation failures to SAP submission errors. This 
section outlines the most common problems, how they present in the system, and how developers can 
support their resolution.
12.1 SAP Submission Failures
 Symptoms
User receives an error after clicking “Submit to SAP”•
SAP BOM Number ( STLNR ) is not returned or remains blank •
Status remains “Published” but never moves to “Submitted”•
  Root Causes
Missing or invalid plant -cost center -material mapping •
Duplicate component entries in the same step•
Invalid effective date (must be today or future)•
RFC failure or SAP connection timeout•
 Troubleshooting Steps
Check required fields (plant, cost center, material number) 20.
Review version for duplicate or incomplete components 21.
Search Splunk logs for SubmitBOMToSAP or similar error entries 22.
Manually retry submission after corrections 23.
12.2 Spec Change Not Triggering
 Symptoms
User knows a spec has changed in PDM, but the BOM is still “Published”•
Expected “Spec Change” status never appears•
  Root Causes
NService message failed to deliver or process•
Material not properly mapped in formulation payload•
Backend logic failed to flag the impacted BOM•
 Troubleshooting Steps
Confirm PDM spec update exists for the material 24.
Check backend table recipe_current for timestamp changes 25.
Review Splunk logs for NService -related failures 26.
   My KT Page 53    
Review Splunk logs for NService -related failures 26.
Trigger a manual sync or escalate to integration team 27.
12.3 Version Stuck in Edit
 Symptoms
User cannot publish or submit a BOM version•
Version remains in “Edit” status despite being complete•
  Root Causes
Incomplete validation: step yield ≠100%, missing components •
Cost center or inventory point not assigned•
User lacks permissions to publish for selected plant•
 Troubleshooting Steps
Validate all required fields and that step yields total 100% 28.
Confirm cost center is selected and valid for the plant 29.
Check user’s assigned role and plant access 30.
Use backend queries to confirm version metadata 31.
12.4 Material Not Appearing in Search
 Symptoms
User cannot find a material in dropdowns or search fields•
Existing materials appear blank or filtered out•
  Root Causes
Material not synced to BOM Portal from PDM•
Plant -material linkage missing in plant_material_xref_current •
User doesn’t have access to the plant or BOM type•
 Troubleshooting Steps
Check material_current and plant_material_xref_current tables 32.
Verify plant assignment via backend or user config 33.
Confirm with business team that the material is ready for BOM creation 34.
12.5 General UI Failures or Freezing
 Symptoms
Pages freeze or crash during component entry•
Long load times on version dropdown or spec change screen•
  Root Causes
AngularJS performance limitations•
Large component lists or improperly cached data•
SignalR disconnect or timeout•
 Troubleshooting Steps
Refresh the browser or clear session cache 35.
Monitor for any failing SignalR messages in developer console 36.
Review backend logs for page load performance 37.
Escalate to frontend support team if UI is unresponsive 38.
12.6 Logging and Debugging Tools Summary
Tool Use
Splunk View backend logs, errors, SAP submission failures
SignalR Logs Detect async update failures or stale syncs
MySQL Queries Validate material/plant linkage and BOM components
UI Console Spot frontend errors, missing events, or slow loads
Would you like to continue with the Appendices (e.g., Acronym Glossary, Contact List, Sample Queries)?
Appendices (Legacy BOM Portal)
The following appendices provide reference material for developers and analysts working with the BOM 
Portal. These include acronyms, key contacts, commonly used queries, and system resources needed for 
onboarding and day -to-day troubleshooting.
Appendix A: Acronym Glossary
Acronym Definition
BOM Bill of Materials
PDM Product Data Management
PLM Product Lifecycle Management
SAP Systems, Applications, and Products (ERP System)
ALM Application Lifecycle Management (HP Test Repository)
RFC Remote Function Call (SAP integration protocol)
ZPARM Tyson -specific SAP parameter configuration program
STKO SAP BOM Header Table
STPO SAP BOM Component Table
STLNR SAP BOM Number
STLAN SAP BOM Type
NService Asynchronous message handler (spec change delivery)
SignalR Real -time messaging framework for async UI updates
Appendix B: Key Contacts
Name Role Area of Expertise
Andre Lara Analyst SAP/BOM Integration, Spec Changes
Tricia McCoy Senior Manager, Applications BOM Portal Ownership
Jerry Koshy Project Manager Deployment Coordination
Greg Homstad Analyst & Functional Lead Documentation, Functional Behavior
Dennis Tran Dev Team Lead (if applicable) Backend Services
Contact roles may vary by project or support rotation. Always confirm with your team lead.
   My KT Page 54    
Appendix C: Common SQL Queries (MySQL / GCP)
 Find BOM Versions for a Material
sql
CopyEdit
SELECT * 
FROM recipe_current 
WHERE MATERIAL_NUM = '123456' AND PLANT_CODE = '0563';
 Check Plant -Material Linkage
sql
CopyEdit
SELECT * 
FROM plant_material_xref_current 
WHERE MATERIAL_NUM = '123456' AND PLANT_CODE = '0563';
 Identify BOMs in Spec Change Status
sql
CopyEdit
SELECT * 
FROM recipe_current 
WHERE BOM_STATUS = 'Spec Change';
 Look for Duplicated Components
sql
CopyEdit
SELECT RECIPE_ID, COMPONENT_ID, COUNT(*) 
FROM component_step_current 
GROUP BY RECIPE_ID, COMPONENT_ID 
HAVING COUNT(*) > 1;
Appendix D: Environment URLs
Environment Portal URL
DEV https://bomportal -dev.tyson.com (example only)
QA https://bomportal -qa.tyson.com
SBX https://bomportal -sbx.tyson.com
PROD https://bomportal.tyson.com
Actual URLs may vary. Refer to onboarding documentation or bookmarks from your team.
Appendix E: Onboarding Checklist for Developers
Get access to GitLab repo (legacy portal)•
Configure local development environment (IIS Express or Docker)•
Request MySQL read access for DEV/QA•
Gain access to Splunk, SignalR dashboard (if applicable)•
Review ALM test cases relevant to BOM changes•
Meet with product owner to understand current roadmap and pain points•
That completes the training manual for the legacy BOM Portal .
Would you like me to compile this into a formatted Word document for download?
4o
   My KT Page 55    
1. Purpose of the BOM Portal
The BOM Portal is Tyson Foods’ central application for creating, managing, validating, and submitting 
Bills of Materials (BOMs) used in both production and financial processes. It provides a structured 
interface that enables cost accounting, supply chain, and technical teams to define and maintain 
accurate recipe structures across plants.
The BOM Portal bridges the gap between upstream formulation systems such as PDM (Product Data 
Management) and PLM (Product Lifecycle Management) and downstream execution systems such as 
SAP, where final BOMs are consumed for manufacturing, costing, and inventory planning.
Primary Objectives
1.1 Standardized BOM Management
Enables structured creation and publishing of Bills of Materials specific to plant, material, BOM type 
(Production, Finance, Engineering, AOP), and cost center.•
Supports version control by allowing users to create new versions upon changes rather than overwriting 
existing BOMs.•
Enforces data entry consistency for step sequencing, component assignments, inventory points, and 
yields.•
Provides a single source of truth for BOM data, reducing discrepancies and errors across departments.•
Streamlines the BOM creation process, making it more efficient and less time -consuming. •
1.2 Integration with Enterprise Systems
Receives formulation input from upstream systems like PDM and PLM, often via scheduled payloads.•
Submits finalized BOMs to SAP using backend remote function calls (RFCs) triggered from within the 
portal after passing internal validation checks.•
Ensures synchronization across PDM, PLM, and SAP through scheduled spec change processing and 
reconciliation.•
Facilitates seamless data exchange between different systems, eliminating manual data entry and 
reducing the risk of errors.•
Improves data accuracy and consistency across the enterprise.•
1.3 Plant -Specific Configuration
Allows for local BOM variations to be built off corporate formulations, such as alternate ingredient 
routing or yield percentages based on plant -specific processes.•
Supports toggles such as “Override  ormulation” and “Use Global Scrap” for managing exceptions at the 
plant level.•
Enables plants to adapt BOMs to their specific needs and optimize production processes.•
Provides flexibility to handle variations in raw materials, equipment, and production environments.•
1.4 Spec Change Tracking
Automatically flags affected BOMs with a "Spec Change" status when formulation updates are received 
from PDM.•
Prompts users to review and update impacted BOMs to maintain alignment with current specifications.•
Uses NService to receive weekly spec update notifications and apply them programmatically where 
applicable.•
Ensures that BOMs are always up -to-date with the latest specifications, preventing production errors 
and quality issues.•
Provides a clear audit trail of changes, improving accountability and traceability.•
1.5 Version ControlThursday, May 08, 2025 3:06 PM
   My KT Page 56    
1.5 Version Control
Tracks BOMs at the version level, preserving published versions while allowing users to create and edit 
new drafts.•
Each BOM version has a unique version number but must be reviewed individually —no full audit log or 
history comparison exists in the UI.•
Versioning supports downstream traceability for SAP submissions and formulation governance.•
Allows users to easily revert to previous BOM versions if needed, minimizing disruption to production.•
Supports the management of BOM changes over time, providing a historical record for analysis and 
reporting.•
   My KT Page 57    
What has felt the most pressing or challenging for you over the past week?
Over the past week I got into 2 fights with my best friend. I recently have been feeling jealousy towards 
her and haven't been handling it well. She recently has been going on dates and I don't like to think 
about her with other men, I think it is best that we stop our intimate physical relationship. She has not 
been in the mood for weeks constantly saying she doesn’t want to. The thing that bothered me the most 
is that she slept with this guy after "not being in the mood" with me time and time again. It makes me 
feel like I'm not good enough in some way. At the same time I went and saw someone else because she 
wasn’t giving into my desires so I took matters into my own hands and found someone. At the same 
time I'm afraid that she is going to get in a relationship soon (something I can't provide her) and thinking 
on that made me break down emotionally and cry several times throughout the night. She insisted that 
she is not leaving however based on how things have gone with other friends I'm still preparing to have 
the carpet yanked up from under me. I think that part she has a problem with, she doesn’t want to let 
me go either, she doesn’t let on to what she is feeling towards me anymore, many of her emotions have 
been since replaced with anger, frustration, and 
What physical sensations, images, feelings, and thoughts do you notice in yourself?
I cant get the picture of her with someone else out of my head. I don't want to limit her and have in the 
past encouraged her to find someone however now that the time is coming I feel blue. I think the main 
reason I don't want to be with you is how we fight. We've never been able to prove to each other that 
we are capable of going without fighting for more than a week or two and that hurts me because often 
times those feelings are formed because she assumes something or has overthought something to the 
point she doesn’t know what is true and what she is making up in her head. 
What growth or improvement in your thoughts, emotions, and relationships can you share with your 
therapist?
This past time when Taylor asked to spend the night I told her no, I told her my reasoning, and she still 
chose to ask again (completely disregarding my boundaries) and then we got into a fight because I didn't 
want to cuddle up with her or touch her a night after she was with someone else. 
What can you ask your therapist to help or support you with?  
I want to learn how to set healthy boundaries and learn to stick with them. Often times my boundaries 
get crossed because I have allowed people to walk over them or I just don't have it in me to sit and fight 
with someone. I want to hold myself accountable. 5/5/25
Monday, May 05, 2025 9:59 AM
   Therapy Page 58    
Cmaj7 –G –Am –F  32d44444443e
[Verse 1]
We used to burn like porch lights in the summer
Fell asleep in your car, the seats laid flat
You'd laugh at the way I’d stutter
Now silence answers when I ask where you’re at
[Pre -Chorus]
And I keep finding pieces
Of you in the couch and my clothes
Still smell like late night beaches
And the lies we told to get close
[Chorus]
You were my come -down song
My Sunday drive
The only place I went when the world didn’t feel right
Now I talk to the night like it’s holding your name
But the echoes just flicker and fade
[Verse 2]
You called me out for always running
But you left first, didn’t even slam the door
I hear your ghost when the vinyl’s humming
Still got your records, can’t play ‘em anymore
[Pre -Chorus]
And my friends all say I’m better
That heartbreak grows you tall
But they didn’t write those letters
On my bedroom wall
[Chorus]
You were my come -down song
My Sunday drive
The only place I went when the world didn’t feel right
Now I talk to the night like it’s holding your name
But the echoes just flicker and fade
[Bridge] (quiet, stripped back)
There's a street we used to crash on
Where the lights don’t blink
I sit on the curb like it's sacred
Trying not to think
But it hits like a record
When the needle’s too deepMonday, May 05, 2025 10:22 AM
   Songs Page 59    
When the needle’s too deep
I lost a friend, lost a lover, lost the air I breathe
[Outro/Breakdown] (crescendo build -up with full band)
You were my come -down song
My Sunday drive
My whispered secret on a Tuesday night
Now the rearview shows
Just a face I knew
And the road's too long to get back to you
 Guitar Tab + Chords:
 ey: C Major (fits the nostalgic tone, like “Maple Syrup”)
Tempo: ~92 BPM
Strumming: Syncopated indie rock style –Down, Down -Up, (mute), Up -Down -Up
[Verse & Pre -Chorus Chord Progression]
r
CopyEdit
Cmaj7 –G –Am –F  
Cmaj7 –G –Am –F  
Optional riff between chords:
lua
CopyEdit
e|--0------0------0--------- 1--|  
B|--0------0------1--------- 1--|  
G|--0------0------2--------- 2--|  
D|--2------0------2--------- 3--|  
A|--3------2------0--------- 3--|  
E|--x------3------x--------- 1--|
[Chorus Chord Progression]
r
CopyEdit
Am –F –C –G  
Am –F –C –G  
Lead guitar idea over chorus:
lua
CopyEdit
e|------------- 8---7---------- |  
B|---8---10---------- 8-------- |  
G|--9---9----9---------------- |  
   Songs Page 60    
G|--9---9----9---------------- |  
D|---------------------------- |  
[Bridge & Outro Chord Progression]
mathematica
CopyEdit
F –C –G –Am  
F –C –G –C  
For a dreamy “Backseat Lovers” outro, use tremolo picking and a reverb -heavy clean tone on electric 
guitar.
   Songs Page 61    
Ken McCreary
Friday, May 02, 2025 1:15 PM
   My Shout Outs Page 62    
  
Hi Tricia,
Thank you for your email and for the opportunity to align before our meeting when I return. I 
agree maybe this wasn't best place to include Andre and Jerry however the insights that I have 
pertain to their roles as well. This will be outlined a detailed in our upcoming meeting. I have 
completed my sections of the Performance Assessment with detailed ratings and comments.
As I reviewed the template, I noticed that several duties and skills listed align more closely with 
a Product Manager or Team Manager role rather than a Product Owner role as defined in Agile 
practices. While I welcome the opportunity for visibility and training in these areas to support 
future growth, the way we have operated as a team over the past year has placed many of 
these responsibilities outside my current scope.
Below is my response to the points you requested:
1. Fundamental disconnect in role definition, responsibilities, and support
I would like to gain a clearer understanding of the distinctions between Product Owner I, 
Product Owner II, and Manager roles within Tyson’s job architecture, as well as what is 
specifically needed from me to progress to a PO II.
Based on Tyson’s IT Job Architecture, my understanding of the core PO I responsibilities 
includes:
Collaborating with the Product Manager and cross -functional teams to understand 
the voice of the customer.•
Translating requirements into actionable user stories and acceptance criteria.•
Participating in sprint ceremonies.•
Assisting in guiding the team in delivering high -quality, customer -focused 
solutions.•
Driving continuous improvement.•
Over the past year, there has been overlap between roles. In some cases, responsibilities such 
as backlog creation, acceptance criteria definition, and roadmap planning have primarily been 
handled by others. I have offered to participate in or take ownership of these activities but was 
redirected or told they would be addressed later (which is what I’m now using this email for).
While I acknowledge I could have advocated more strongly from the get go , I am still 
continuing to learn the most effective ways to communicate within the team structure and 
adapt to corporate processes. My goal is to ensure alignment so I can fully deliver on the 
expectations for my role.
2. Requests for realignment
I have previously requested a clear delineation of my responsibilities versus those of the 
Product Manager and Team Manager. I believe it would be valuable to have a documented 
agreement so both Andre and I are fully aligned on:
My direct responsibilities.•
His direct responsibilities.•
Where review, visibility, and feedback are most appropriate.•
As Agile best practices outline:
Product Manager: Owns whyand what big things are built (roadmap, initiative -
level prioritization).•
Product Owner: Owns what exactly and when in sprints (backlog management, 
story writing, acceptance criteria).•
Team Manager: Owns who and how we staff and enable the team (resourcing, 
performance management).•
Clear boundaries here would help reduce role overlap, prevent duplication of effort, and ensure 
performance is measured against my core responsibilities.
3. Additional work and responsibilities
Over the past year, I have taken on responsibilities outside the PO I profile, including:
SAP/BOM Portal reconciliation SQL query development.•
Power BI design specifications, data model reviews, and dashboard•
These contributions were made in good faith to support the team, but they 
represent off -scope work that I believe should be recognized separately from my 
core PO performance.•
4. What I need to be successful
Role clarity: A documented agreement on PO I vs. Product Manager vs. Team 
Manager responsibilities.•
Scope boundaries: Confirmation of which additional tasks are permanent versus 
temporary or evolving.•
Training plan: Identification of skills to develop for career progression without 
impacting current performance metrics.•
Consistent involvement: Inclusion in all relevant stakeholder and UX/UI meetings 
where my input is valuable.•
Feedback cadence: Regular check -ins to review progress against role expectations 
and overall team alignment.•
5. Why this alignment matters now
The lack of clearly defined boundaries has, at times, impacted deliverables. For example, when 
dependent work items (such as a card remaining in validation after a sprint without clear next 
steps) are delayed, it directly affects my ability to close related tasks, impacts reporting 
timelines, and can create downstream rework. Documented ownership and role definitions 
would ensure accountability, streamline handoffs, and protect delivery commitments.
I am committed to improving where needed and to fully aligning with expectations once they 
are clearly defined. I look forward to discussing this with you next week so we can finalize role 
alignment and ensure performance measurement is based on agreed -upon responsibilities.
Thank you for your time and consideration.
Best regards,
Greg Homstad
IT Product Owner1 Requirements 
Gathering: Learn 
and observe how 
to work closely 
with stakeholders, 
including 
customers, sales, 
marketing, and 
engineering teams, 
to gather and 
prioritize product 
requirements.4 -
Proficient: 
Has 
demonstrate
d the task 
satisfactorily
.Evidence –All requirements 
gathering I've done for UX/UI 
as well as the reconciliation 
report validated and part of 
regular working cards. Prior IT 
experience gives clear 
theoretical understanding. In 
practice, need to be more 
vocal when met with 
pushback or lack of 
trust/confidence.
2 Product Planning: 
Assist in creating 
and maintaining 
the product 
roadmap, defining 
features, and 
release timelines 
based on business 
objectives and 
user needs2 -
Attempted: 
Has 
attempted 
the task but 
with 
significant 
errors or 
requires 
substantial 
guidance.Attempted alignment with 
coworkers. Happy to assist, 
but not a core PO 
responsibility; this should be 
clarified. Assistance 
expectations too broad —need 
clear boundaries between 
core responsibilities and 
career growth/training. Have 
asked to assist but not 
included (screenshots 
attachable). Ultimately 
Andre’s role as acting Product 
Manager—should not be 
rated on responsibilities 
outside PO scope.
3 Cross -Functional 
Collaboration: 
Collaborate with 
cross -functional 
teams, including 
design, 
engineering, 
marketing, and 
sales, to ensure 
alignment and 
execution of 
product initiatives4 -
Proficient: 
Has 
demonstrate
d the task 
satisfactorily
.Kay demonstrated a process 
that should be followed. Some 
collaboration hasn’t followed 
process due to PM/trainer 
guidance. Improvement: 
follow up with Kay 
consistently; require 
attendance at all UX/UI 
meetings. Currently some 
meetings happen without me 
as Andre has taken on this 
task.
4 Feature 
Prioritization: 
Understand how 
to prioritize 
features and 
enhancements 
based on their 
impact on user 
experience, 
business value, 
and technical 
feasibility.0 -No 
exposure: 
Has not had 
exposure to 
doing the 
task.Understand process and how 
to do it; however, this is 
Product Manager’s 
responsibility in Agile. PO role 
is to break down defined 
features. No issues here.
5 Project 
Coordination: 
Observe and learn 
to coordinate 
project activities, 
tasks, and 
timelines, ensuring 
that milestones 
are met, and 
deliverables are 
completed on time 
and within scope0 -No 
exposure: 
Has not had 
exposure to 
doing the 
task.Not a PM; unclear why this is 
included. Am I expected to 
audit teammate work? No 
training provided. Can assist, 
but not a core responsibility.
6 Documentation: 
Create and 
maintain product 
documentation, 
including user 
stories, feature 
specifications, and 
release notes, to 
communicate 
requirements and 
updates to 
stakeholders.5 -Excellent: 
Has 
demonstrate
d the task 
and 
performed 
very well.Proven ability to document. 
Definition of done needs 
clarification —often met with 
suggestions instead of 
substantial changes from PM. 
Minor changes should be new 
backlog items. All 
documentation 
reviewed/validated by PM. 
Recently only creating cards 
for myself and Ayesha per 
 ern’s request.
7 Testing and 
Validation: Learn 
and observe how 
user acceptance 
testing (UAT) and 
validation of 
product features 
work to ensure 
they meet quality 
standards and user 
expectations.5 -Excellent: 
Has 
demonstrate
d the task 
and 
performed 
very well.Team improvement needed in 
managing changing priorities. 
Need high -level process clarity 
to avoid loss of detail. 
Reference Andre/Kay 
conversations.
8 Performance 
Monitoring: 
Understanding and 
assisting in 
defining and 
tracking key 
performance 
indicators (KPIs) 
and metrics to 
measure product 
performance and 2 -
Attempted: 
Has 
attempted 
the task but 
with 
significant 
errors or 
requires 
substantial 
guidance.Not looped into many needed 
conversations. Team needs 
awareness of intended 
audience.Friday, August 29, 2025 9:00 AM
   accomodations Page 63    
are clearly defined. I look forward to discussing this with you next week so we can finalize role 
alignment and ensure performance measurement is based on agreed -upon responsibilities.
Thank you for your time and consideration.
Best regards,
Greg Homstad
IT Product Owner
BOM Portal –IT Finance, Controlling & Costingdefining and 
tracking key 
performance 
indicators (KPIs) 
and metrics to 
measure product 
performance and 
success.the task but 
with 
significant 
errors or 
requires 
substantial 
guidance.
9 Continuous 
Improvement: 
Continuously seek 
opportunities for 
improvement, 
gathering 
feedback from 
users and 
stakeholders to 
iterate on product 
features and 
enhance the 
overall user 
experience5 -Excellent: 
Has 
demonstrate
d the task 
and 
performed 
very well.Regularly seeks improvement 
and feedback. Enrolled in 
product management 
certificate course to enhance 
understanding and growth. 
Evidence of initiative in many 
conversations.
10 Learning and 
Development: Stay 
informed about 
industry trends, 
best practices, and 
emerging 
technologies in 
product 
management, 
seeking out 
learning 
opportunities to 
grow and develop 
in the role5 -Excellent: 
Has 
demonstrate
d the task 
and 
performed 
very well.Demonstrated adherence to 
best practices and desire for 
growth. Improvement area: 
reference best practice 
documentation explicitly. 
Recently audited coworker’s 
cards and identified gaps.
11 Customer Support: 
Provide support to 
customer -facing 
teams, including 
responding to 
customer 
inquiries, 
addressing 
product -related 
issues, and 
assisting with 
customer training 
and onboarding.5 -Excellent: 
Has 
demonstrate
d the task 
and 
performed 
very well.Regular contact with Doug. 
Prioritizes customer needs. 
Raises concerns about 
business pushback and 
significant issues affecting 
timelines.
12 Team 
Collaboration: 
Collaborate with 
product 
management 
peers and other 
team members, 
sharing 
knowledge, 
insights, and best 
practices to foster 
a culture of 
collaboration and 
continuous 
learning.3 -Needs 
Improvemen
t: Has 
demonstrate
d the task 
but needs 
improvemen
t.Can do this, but processes for 
ensuring correct involvement 
in BOM Forge functional 
discussions need definition.
13 Perform other 
assigned job -
related duties that 
align with our 
organization's 
vision, mission, 
and values and fall 
within your scope 
of practice.4 -
Proficient: 
Has 
demonstrate
d the task 
satisfactorily
.Currently performing ~80% 
analysis/support work vs. 20% 
PO responsibilities. Only 
recently aligning 
responsibilities. After being 
asked to be aligned multiple 
times through both proudct 
manager and team manager. 
Special Skills: 
1 Methodology: 
Foundational 
knowledge of Agile 
Product and 
Waterfall 
methodology.3 -Needs 
Improvemen
t: Has 
demonstrate
d the task 
but needs 
improvemen
t.New to role; lack of 
understanding now more than 
ever. Belief was we were 
moving away from waterfall —
needs confirmation. Clear 
separation of concerns 
needed from where we where 
to where we are to be.
2 Communication: 
Effective 
communication, 
able to present to 
team and 
management.0 -No 
exposure: 
Has not had 
exposure to 
doing the 
task.No opportunity to present 
despite asking (e.g., SteerCo). 
Andre often critiques work 
and then presents it himself. 
Disconnect from priorities.
3 Decision -Making: 
Value -based 
decision -making.0 -No 
exposure: 
Has not had 
exposure to 
doing the 
task.Treated reconciliation report 
as high priority until informed 
otherwise. 
4 Problem -solving: 
Analytical skills for 
diagnosing and 
solving issues.4 -
Proficient: 
Has 
demonstrate
d the task 
satisfactorily
.Learned SAP DB related to PP; 
schema definitions, SAP –BOM 
Portal interactions, identified 
issues, and solved assigned 
tasks. Wants more 
opportunity to use skills and 
be heard.
5 Organization: 
Managing time, 
prioritizing tasks, 
and handling 
responsibilities.4 -
Proficient: 
Has 
demonstrate
d the task 
satisfactorily
.Evidence in all tasks that have 
been validated. 
6 Learning: Self - 5 -Excellent: Matches Q10; adaptable to 
   accomodations Page 64    
6 Learning: Self -
motivated and 
willing to learn 
new technologies 
and adapt to 
change.5 -Excellent: 
Has 
demonstrate
d the task 
and 
performed 
very well.Matches Q10; adaptable to 
change. Team adaptation 
issues are external, not 
personal.
Right Behaviors: 
R Results 4 -
Proficient: 
Has 
demonstrate
d the task 
satisfactorily
.Validated by Andre’s 
recommendations; produced 
significant results for cost 
accounting BOM –SAP 
reconciliation.
I Innovation 4 -
Proficient: 
Has 
demonstrate
d the task 
satisfactorily
.Worked with Fernanda on GPT 
implementation plan and idea 
briefly; not fully dedicated 
yet—functional aspects need 
definition and closure first
G Growth Mindset 4 -
Proficient: 
Has 
demonstrate
d the task 
satisfactorily
.
H Humility 5 -Excellent: 
Has 
demonstrate
d the task 
and 
performed 
very well.Seeks to understand others’ 
perspectives, especially 
Andre’s preferences for 
formatting/verbiage. 
Especially when not related to 
scope of work or acceptance 
criteria
T Teamwork 4 -
Proficient: 
Has 
demonstrate
d the task 
satisfactorily
.Needs improvement; expects 
management/ product 
manager support after 
validation. Feels disconnected 
from remote team and 
manager who doesn’t see 
daily work. Needs structure 
for efficient collaboration and 
clearer distribution of 
authority. Not to be 
micromanaged and additional 
tasks to be handed as a result 
of those micromanagements. 
   accomodations Page 65    
Standardization to GitLab
Transition to GitLab : •
All projects and corresponding blocks for generating services and web apps are moving to GitLab. 
Azure will no longer be used for deployments and will be decommissioned.
Pipeline Changes : •
Two different pipelines need to be established in GitLab for services and web applications.
Material and Recipe Management
BOM Portal and Recipe Management :
Material BOM (CS03) : SAP transaction code used to display Material BOM. •
Recipe BOM (C203) : SAP transaction code used to display Recipe BOM. •
BOM Portal : Focuses only on production line recipes. •
Recipe Management : Ensures production recipes are updated and synchronized with the 
BOM Portal.••
Enterprise Change Management (ECM)
ECM Lifecycle :
Manages changes in how the BOM is manufactured from a cost accounting perspective 
rather than formulation.•
Changes involve both stock and non -stock components that are sent to SAP. ••
Handling of Seconds Material
Seconds Material : •
Represents downgraded material. Discussions are needed on managing and justifying exceptions 
for seconds all the way back to PDM.
Communication Between Systems
PDM to BOM Portal : •
PDM sends notifications to the BOM Portal about specification changes. BOM Portal acts as the 
authoritative container for master formulation data.
Synchronization :
Weekly synchronization checks between PDM, PLM, and BOM.•
PLM creates and decentralizes an official product payload containing material data and 
converts it into a BOM -readable format.•
Regular reconciliation ensures synchronization between BOM and PDM.•
NService Notifications : ••
NService is used for receiving notifications about specification changes, which are integrated into 
a weekly reconciliation process.
Reconciliation and Data Integrity
Weekly and Daily Reconciliation :
Daily comparisons check BOM and PDM data for around 1,000 recipes.•
Weekly reports reconcile BOM and PDM data, cross -referencing with PLM requests to 
ensure they are in sync.••
Splunk Dashboards and Logging
Dashboard Updates : •
Splunk dashboards are updated to enhance logging capabilities, using Redis and SignalR web 
sockets for quick reconnections and IP address assignments.
Ensuring Data Flow and Specification Changes
Data Flow :
PDM sends formulation data to BOM Portal and ESP (Engineering Service Portal).•
SAP receives recipe -level data from the BOM Portal. •
Regular checks confirm that specification changes are applied correctly.•
Spec Changes and PLM Payload : ••KT 
Wednesday, September 11, 2024 1:39 PM
   Andre KT Page 66    
Spec Changes and PLM Payload :
Spec changes are managed by PDM, which sends messages to the BOM Portal to 
trigger specific microservices.▪
The BOM Portal fetches formulation data from PLM for the official product.▪•
Key Actions Moving Forward
Migrate All Azure -Based Services to GitLab : •
Ensure all project repositories, pipelines, and services are transitioned to GitLab as Azure will be 
decommissioned.
Update Splunk Dashboards : •
Improve the visibility and detail of logs to help in monitoring and debugging.
Implement Regular Reconciliation Processes : •
Continue daily and weekly reconciliation checks between BOM, PDM, and PLM to maintain data 
integrity.
Manage Seconds Material Process : •
Create clear guidelines for managing and justifying the handling of seconds material exceptions.
Coordinate Changes Through ECM : •
Monitor ECM changes affecting cost accounting and ensure synchronization with the rest of the 
system.
ALM for BOM Portal
ALM Functions :
Verifies test procedures, detailing what tests have been run, when, where, and by whom.•
Monitors and verifies that all systems are in concurrent lifecycle states.•
Testing Process : ••
Creating Tests :
New defects correlate to releases; for small enhancements, use Clarity project ID 000000 . •
New test plans should be created for items impacted by disaster recovery.•
Example: For "Disaster Recovery –Recipe Extension Submission Verification," specify details 
like test name, comments, and creation date.••
Check -In Process :
Write "check -in" comments, create a new test set, and attach necessary files (e.g., "DR Plan -
Defects Verification Prod Defects Attachment").•
If attachments exist, attach them; if not, leave blank.••
Running Tests :
Click "Run" and add comments (e.g., "Verification performed in Q49").•
Document expected and actual results.•
Upon passing, move to "Passed" status and add relevant attachments.•
Check -Out Process : •
Complete the test process by checking out and documenting all necessary details.
Test plan is adopted to feature needs recurrent test plans, verify SAP is listening (send a 
bom to sap, verify connectivity)
Bom = new plant, material formulation, cost center. PDM -> MRS -> material master
What are the main reasons for moving away from the "Master -Formulation" label, 
and what alternative terminology will be adopted?
Master formulation results vaguely define and doesn’t provide the correct 
description on the efforts defined within the project’s scope; it was loosely 
labeled as Master Formulation since the previous project was named Official 
Master Data. In essence both Official Master Data and Master Formulation refer 
to the same portion, which is implement an authoritative layer of date 
representing true Formulations, replicating an isolated entity within BOM 
Portal.1.1.
What challenges are anticipated during the "soft" migration process, and how will 2.•
   Andre KT Page 67    
What challenges are anticipated during the "soft" migration process, and how will 
they be mitigated? Additionally, what distinguishes a "soft" migration from a "hard" 
migration?
A soft migration was chosen since it would allow the internal skillset to 
accommodate per the ETL process. Basically a soft migration will allow to isolate 
plants to have new BOMs (vs LEGACY Recipe entities) and others to maintain 
the Legacy recipe design. With this we keep a duality , but also represents 
challenges between data transition and data integrity.1.2.
How will new software platforms, such as Microsoft Blazor, be integrated and utilized 
in the migration process?
Blazor is an equivalent to .NET CORE, in which case this will hold all mid -tier and 
front -end level features, a first draft to demonstrate that functionalities can be 
moved into blazor is the integration of the “Formulation Viewer” which is an 
angular -based API that represents the state of transition of that formulation 
replication level. The actual plan needs to be reviewed with Development team; 
you can see a first draft of that on the corresponding user stories for Blazor 
integration.1.3.
What are the core functional requirements for the new schema, and how will these 
differ from the existing legacy schema?
Outline entity representation per hierarchical level of data stratum
Formulation1.
BOM Template2.
BOM Version3.
(Currently reviewing for a potential 4th strata that will go in -between 
Formulation and BOM Template)4.1.
Create usable and engineered BOMs as main unit of work
Normalized1.
Break Recipe -centralized conception 2.2.
Integrate NF (Normal Forms) to ensure ACID (Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, 
Durability) transactions3.
Delimit all business rules on a consistent format to align functionalities.4.4.
How will the relationship between BOM entities and corporate formulations be 
managed to maintain consistency?
See the following docs:1.5.
BOM Pull -Ahead Redesign.pptx (slide 6) 6.
BOM Schema Specifications -Draft.pdf 7.
Recipe -to-BOM Conversion 2024 -Developer Reference.pptx 8.
What mechanisms will be implemented to ensure that all BOMs conform to the new 
authoritative data template?
See the following Doc:1.9.
How will the system validate that only accurate and compliant BOMs are included in 
the BOM Portal? What criteria will be used to determine their validity?
BOMs are a unique combination of material:cost -center (since cost centers are 
plant specific), and BOM Templates can only represent a unique Formulation.1.
Normalization reduces discrepancies and integrity violations, of any sort, either 
entity integrity violation, transactional integrity violation etc.2.
Modeling schema prior to actual definition allows the visualization of multiple 
constraints that can be implemented between joins and relations (assume 
relation as an abstraction of table)3.
Follow business rules that dictate the correct integration of schema to reduce 
integrity violations (refer to previous attachment).4.
Implement software engineering best practices.5.10.
What measures will be put in place to ensure that BOMs align with the most current 
versions of their associated formulations during testing?11.
   Andre KT Page 68    
versions of their associated formulations during testing?
Schema design constraints:
Formulation ID is a FK on BOM Template, this tuple represents the 
uniqueness of the formulation gathered in a 
suitable/engineerable/consumable BOM Template, that is the central 
entity of BOM versioning. In this way we ensure that BOM Templates will 
only point at a unique Formulation ID and that a Formulation must 
uniquely represent a Material ID.1.1.
What strategy will be employed to manage different inventory points (such as ZFG 
and ZSWP) and their relationships across multiple plants?
Hard question to answer right now, I need to give you more details on what 
inventory points are from a costing perspective and what bad practices have 
been merged into them because of BOM deficiency. Inventory points will be 
exclusively part of BOM Versions and they will not be dependent on any 
formulation level data, as they will be isolated from any transaction 
corresponding to formulation/bom template levels. 1.12.
   Andre KT Page 69    
A bill of materials (BOM) is a comprehensive list of all the materials, 
components, and subassemblies required to manufacture a product. A 
BOM essentially provides a structure for making a product repeatably 
every time, thereby introducing a basis for standardization in the 
production process.
A bill of materials will contain the quantity or volume of each component 
used but it may also include additional information such as:
production routings•
production cycle times•
production costs•
waste factors•
other work -center data required to produce the finished item. •
Communication Between Systems
PDM to BOM Portal : •
PDM sends notifications to the BOM Portal about specification changes. BOM Portal acts as the 
authoritative container for master formulation data.
Synchronization :
Weekly synchronization checks between PDM, PLM, and BOM.•
PLM creates and decentralizes an official product payload containing material data and 
converts it into a BOM -readable format.•
Regular reconciliation ensures synchronization between BOM and PDM.•
NService Notifications : ••
NService is used for receiving notifications about specification changes, which are integrated into 
a weekly reconciliation process.
Enterprise Change Management (ECM)
ECM Lifecycle :
Manages changes in how the BOM is manufactured from a cost accounting perspective 
rather than formulation.•
Changes involve both stock and non -stock components that are sent to SAP. ••
Legacy System Integration
PDM (Product Data Management): Serves as the source of record for material formulations. •
Updated PDM Data Handling: PDM data is now translated into BOM format by an interceptor in •Thursday, May 08, 2025 10:43 AM
   Andre KT Page 70    
Updated PDM Data Handling: PDM data is now translated into BOM format by an interceptor in 
the BOM portal.•
PLM (Product Lifecycle Management): Acts as an intermediary, receiving the latest version of 
formulations in XML format. The BOM portal translates this data without relying on the 
destination.•
Legacy Structure:
Internally, there is no "BOM" in the current implementation; only recipes exist.•
Recipes span BOMs, and BOMs span recipes, but recipes may exist without BOMs. Recipes contain 
non-authoritative copies of corporate formulations, regularly edited due to various structural and 
quantitative inputs.•
Goal Structure:
The revised implementation will store data from external systems separately from BOMs 
and update only with changes propagated from the source of record.•
An intermediate "Template" layer corresponding to plant cost centers will provide 
additional data de -duplication and consistency guarantees.•
Versions will only include version -specific data. •••
Project Overview:
Recipe -to-BOM Migration: Focuses on migrating the existing BOM Portal's structure from 
"Recipes" to "Bill of Materials" (BOM). The current structure is inaccurate, and the goal is to 
redesign it to be fundamentally accurate and align with business requirements.•
Master Formulation: The project revolves around the concept of a "Master Data -Formulation 
Replica," which should not be referred to as "Master -Formulation."•1.
Migration Plan:
Software Update and Data Migration: Implement new software platforms and design a new 
schema that aligns with business requirements. Migrate data from the old schema to the new 
functional schema.•
User -Case Migration: Transition from "Soft" migration to a more manual user -case migration 
approach.•2.
Plant -Specific Migration: The approach will involve selecting specific plants to isolate and migrate 
materials.•
Objectives:
Core Redesign: Redefine the core functionality of the BOM Portal, transitioning from Recipes to 
BOMs.•
Data Structure Consistency: Enforce a single approved schema for BOMs and ensure all BOM 
entities have consistent data relationships (one driver, one root step node, etc.).•3.
BOM Templates and Versions:
Unique BOM Structures: Each combination of plant, material, and cost center should have a 
unique BOM structure.•
BOM Templates as Drivers: BOM Templates serve as the "driver" models that define the 
reference for BOM versions.•4.
Validation and Consistency:5.
Formulation and BOM Validation: The document outlines rules for BOM consistency, validation of 
material types, SAP version numbers, date ranges, etc.•
Inventory Points and Material Requirements: There are specific rules around inventory points, such as 
ZCWPs (Costing Work in Process) and other inventory point types.•
Creation and Editing Rules:
Templates and Versions: Procedures for creating and editing BOM Templates and Versions are 
specified, including rules for data retention, step yields, material data, etc.•
Submission to SAP: The document details conditions and requirements for submitting BOMs to 
SAP.•6.
Local Change Management:
Enterprise Change Management: Describes how local changes to BOMs should be managed, with 
a focus on maintaining consistency and avoiding overlapping changes.•7.
Questions for Clarification
   Andre KT Page 71    
Questions for Clarification
Migration Approach:
What are the specific reasons for transitioning from a "Soft" migration to a manual user -case 
migration approach? Are there particular challenges with the "Soft" migration that the manual 
approach addresses better?•
Could you clarify what is meant by "user expense" when discussing migration procedures? Does 
this refer to additional workload for users, potential costs, or something else?•1.
BOM and Formulation Relationship:
The document mentions that "Formulation is not an aspect of a BOM," but it also talks about 
preserving references to formulations and formulation -associated attributes. How does this 
relationship work in practice? Will formulations be directly linked to BOMs or just referenced?•2.
Template and Version Definitions:
Could you provide more details on what constitutes a "driver" BOM, particularly in the context of 
Finance and Production BOM types? How do these differ in terms of structure and purpose?•
What specific conditions dictate whether a BOM is a Finance BOM or a Production BOM in Co -
Packer Plants?•3.
Validation and Consistency Requirements:
The rules around BOM validation are extensive. Are there existing tools or software that will 
automate these checks, or will these validations require manual oversight?•
Could you elaborate on how the "Consistency Scan" for BOMs will be implemented, and what 
technologies or methodologies will be used for this?•4.
Data Handling and Submission:
For BOM submission to SAP, it is mentioned that component extension will occur per BOM and 
plant location. Can you clarify if this will be an automated process, or if manual intervention will 
be necessary? What criteria determine this?•5.
Local Change Management:
The document refers to two types of local BOM changes: structural and version changes. Could 
you explain how these changes differ, and how they will be managed to avoid conflicts or 
overlaps?•6.
Use of New Technologies:
The specification mentions the use of Microsoft Blazor framework and a new transport layer. 
What role will these technologies play in the migration process, and how will they improve the 
functionality of the BOM Portal?•7.
   Andre KT Page 72    
Absolutely! Here's a detailed script for your Knowledge Transfer Session on the functional aspects of 
the BOM Portal:
Knowledge Transfer Session: Functional Aspects of BOM Portal
Introduction
Host: Good [morning/afternoon], everyone. Thank you for joining today's Knowledge Transfer 
Session. The purpose of this session is to provide a comprehensive understanding of the functional 
aspects of the BOM Portal. By the end of this session, you should have a clear grasp of how to 
effectively use the portal for managing Bill of Materials.
Host: Let's start with a brief overview of the BOM Portal. The BOM Portal is a centralized platform 
designed to streamline the creation, management, and integration of Bill of Materials across various 
systems within our organization.
Functional Overview
Host: The BOM Portal offers several key features:
Creation and Management of BOMs: Users can create, edit, and manage BOMs efficiently. 1.
Integration with Other Systems: The portal integrates seamlessly with other enterprise 
systems such as ERP and PLM. SAP and PDM2.
User Roles and Permissions: Different user roles and permissions ensure secure and 
controlled access to the portal.3.
Detailed Functionalities
Host: Let's dive deeper into the functionalities of the BOM Portal.
Host: BOM Creation Process:
To create a BOM, navigate to the 'Create BOM' section. Fill in the required fields such as BOM 
name, description, and components. Once completed, click 'Save' to create the BOM.•
Host: Editing and Updating BOMs:
To edit an existing BOM, go to the 'Manage BOMs' section. Select the BOM you wish to edit, 
make the necessary changes, and click 'Update' to save the changes.•
Host: Version Control:
The portal maintains version control for all BOMs. Each time a BOM is updated, a new version 
is created, allowing users to track changes over time.•
Host: Search and Filter Options:
Use the search bar and filter options to quickly locate specific BOMs. Filters can be applied 
based on various criteria such as date, components, and status.•
Host: Reporting and Analytics:
The portal offers robust reporting and analytics features. Users can generate reports on BOM 
usage, component costs, and other metrics to gain insights into their operations.•
Best PracticesThursday, May 08, 2025 1:23 PM
   Andre KT Page 73    
Best Practices
Host: Here are some best practices to keep in mind:
Data Entry: Ensure accurate and efficient data entry to maintain the integrity of BOMs. 1.
Maintaining Consistency: Use standardized naming conventions and formats to maintain 
consistency across BOMs.2.
Security Measures: Follow security protocols to protect sensitive information within the portal. 3.
Q&A Session
Host: Now, let's open the floor for questions. Feel free to ask any questions or clarify any doubts you 
may have about the BOM Portal.
Conclusion
Host: To wrap up, let's summarize the key points we covered today:
Overview of BOM Portal functionalities•
Detailed guide on creating, editing, and managing BOMs•
Best practices for using the portal•
Host: Thank you for your participation. If you have any further questions or need additional 
resources, please don't hesitate to reach out. Have a great day!
Would you like to add any specific details or examples to this script?
   Andre KT Page 74    
Here are the notes from the conversation with Roberto Lara:
Discussed log definition for spec changes, specifically related to the API service.•
The API service has stabilized throughout the week without errors, though Roberto is hesitant to 
call it a full success, considering it more of a temporary patch for a disconnection issue.•
Roberto's priority is to unblock progress on the master formulation, which is a key focus.•
Faced issues connecting Power BI to the Bump Portal database via MySQL. Power BI didn't 
recognize MySQL as a valid data source initially.
Tried using the latest MySQL plugin but it didn't work. Resolved the issue by downgrading 
the MySQL database and using an older version of the plugin.•
For now, only on -demand queries can be generated for Bump Portal as there's no analytics 
layer or data lake in place.•
Recommended respecting the capitalization format when defining the connection string 
(e.g., "PDB -prod.tyson.com" and "BOMB_MYSQL").••
Mentioned following Najam's suggestion to verify the translation from BOM to OData.
Confirmed that OData is a protocol (Open Data Protocol) that allows for the generation of 
an API remote function call, enabling secure communication between external applications 
and MP.••
Prepared to move forward with the weekly meeting to discuss further.•10/8/24
Tuesday, October 08, 2024 12:04 PM
   Andre KT Page 75    
Scope of Programs in ZParm:
ZParm : In SAP, ZParm typically refers to a customized or user -defined set of configuration parameters or 
programs. These parameters control the behavior of specific SAP functions or processes, ensuring 
efficient data transportation and smooth business operations.•
Programs in ZParm include:
EIM: Enterprise Information Management programs, focusing on data integration, quality, and 
governance.1.
Disassembly : Processes that involve breaking down materials or finished goods into components. 2.
Standard Recipe Verification : Validation of recipes or production formulas to ensure compliance 
with standard procedures.3.•
Actions Performed with This Change:
Objective : The programs in ZParm control data flow, transportation, and material withdrawals, and any 
disruption in these programs would require immediate detection due to their importance to operations.•
What Was Done :
Changes were made to each program within the ZParm set to ensure they function correctly with 
no disruptions.•
CS16 Query Using Wildcard for BOM :
CS16 is a SAP transaction used to analyze the Bill of Materials (BOM) structure.•
In this case, a wildcard search was applied within the text field of the BOM to broaden the 
scope and ensure all relevant BOMs were captured.•
URL Path Verification : Every program in ZParm was analyzed to ensure the corresponding 
URLs referenced within the system paths were accurate and up -to-date.••
Results :
Verified Results :
The review confirmed there were no disruptions to operations during or after the 
change.•
Data transportation, material withdrawals, and other key functionalities continued to 
function smoothly.••
Note on Scope of Change :
The change was applied in SAP, not the BOM Portal : This distinction ensures the 
modifications were limited to the backend system (SAP) rather than the user -facing 
BOM Portal, suggesting a focus on backend configuration without altering the user 
interface or portal functionalities.••
This ensures the transportation process, material management, and operational consistency 
remain unaffected while confirming the accuracy and relevance of the modifications. Let me know 
if any further details are required!•Zparm Document Creation
Thursday, October 10, 2024 9:19 AM
   Andre KT Page 76    
Red line represents output that feeds a step depending on which step is highlighted
Yellow line represents an input in other words it is uneccesary with bomforge.cloud.tyson.com
There should be arrows dictating the sequence between steps 
Corp step title replaced with plant icon, plant inventory point
Green -Published anything already in SAP successfully
Brown/Orange -Edit needs interaction from cost accounting team 
Blue –Edit needs interaction from user wether action 
All bom forge data ingested in data lake to present palantir reports to have better views for them 
report views depending on whats needed and changed
We have unnecessary report Search box in case no matches where found allow to be created KT -BOM User interaction overview & formulation replica 
objects 1/28/25
Tuesday, January 28, 2025 1:58 PM
   Andre KT Page 77    
Jamie Studzinski, Rohis Khan, Zach Hendrix, Ben Easterling, Michael Dufek, Alec Anderson –Developers 
(C#)•
Ivan Albarran –Developer (SAP -ABAP) •
Kari Siemens, Azalia Martinez –Technical Analysts (PDM) •
Andre Lara, Greg Homstad –Business Analyst •
Shannon Massman –Architect (C#) •
Jerry Kosh –Project Manager •
Tricia McCoy –Manager •BOM Portal
Tuesday, September 03, 2024 8:00 AM
   Contacts Page 78    
Tricia's Team
Wednesday, September 04, 2024 8:59 AM
   Contacts Page 79    
SVP, Finance & Accounting
Lori Bondar
VP, Accounting & Controller
Phillip Thomas
Sr. Director of Accounting 
Allen Shanks
Sr. Director of Accounting
Amy McCoy
Sr. Director of Accounting 
Rusty Courson
Group Controller
Ken McCreary
Finance PMO REVolution
Brian King
Managing Director Information Technology
Chelsey Marr
Sr. Director of Applications
Tiffany Benitez
Director of Applications
Dennis Ainley
Sr. Manager Applications
Tricia McCoy
Product Owners & Analyst
Andre Lara, Dileep Bollipolle, Sean Douglas, Steering Committee
Monday, September 16, 2024 9:17 AM
   Contacts Page 80    
Andre Lara, Dileep Bollipolle, Sean Douglas, 
Rajendra Kumar, Jonathan Gill, Sara Hampton, 
Bradley Marlar, Don Cohn, Jimmy Borzone, Greg 
Homstad
Project Managers
Tim Eversole, Jerry Koshy, Bob Clookey
   Contacts Page 81    
My Team @ Tyson
Tricia McCoy –Senior Manager Applications
IT Finance Systems
Tyson Emma
Tricia.McCoy@tyson.com
+1 (479) 290 -1552
Andre Lara –Senior Analyst BOM Portal
IT Financial Controlling & Costing
Location TRC IT HUB (Mexico)
roberto.lara@tyson.com
Sean Douglas -Analyst Applications
IT Financial Controlling & Costing
Tyson Emma
sean.douglas@tyson.com
Sara Hampton –Lead Analyst Applications//Product Owner for Profitability and 
Finance Security. 
IT Financial Controlling & Costing
Tyson Emma (Remote)
sara.hampton@tyson.com
+1 (479) 290 -5831
Key Team Members
Jerry Koshy -Senior Project Analyst
IT Ops & Enabling Functions Portfolio Mgmt
Tyson Emma
MohitJerry.Koshy@tyson.comShannon Massman 
Lead Consultant -Global Source IT 
shannon.massman@tyson.com
703-785-0718
Jerret Ableitner -Senior Director Applications
Tyson Emma
jerret.ableitner@tyson.com
+1 (479) 290 -1476Contacts
Tuesday, August 27, 2024 9:56 AM
   Contacts Page 82    
IT Ops & Enabling Functions Portfolio Mgmt
Tyson Emma
MohitJerry.Koshy@tyson.com
John Tran –Sr Mgr Applications
IT Software Engineering & Integration
Tyson Emma
John.Tran@tyson.com
tel:+1 (479) 290 -1240
Zach Hendrix -Sr Developer Applications
IT Microsoft Development
Tyson Emma
Zach.Hendrix@tyson.com
Rohisaba Khan (Ro -hee) -Developer II -Microsoft
IT Cloud Native Engineering (India)
Bangalore
Rohisaba.Khan@tyson.com
(962) 047 -2145
Benjamin Easterling (Ben) -  Developer Applications
IT Microsoft Development
Location Tyson Emma
+1 (479) 290 -3917
HR Business Partners
Kristy Jungemann -Strategic HR Partner
HR Corporate, International & McDonald's
Tyson HQ
+1 (479) 290 -5308Jerret Ableitner -Senior Director Applications
Tyson Emma
jerret.ableitner@tyson.com
+1 (479) 290 -1476
Jamie Studzinski
Consultant Global Source IT
jamie.studzinski@tyson.com
703.785.0718
Alec Anderson 
Developer Applications –IT Microsoft Development
alec.anderson@tyson.com
Tyson Emma
Martinez, Azalia
Sr. Analyst Applications MXT
R&D and Innovation
azaliasarahi.martinezpadilla@tyson.com
Tyson Mexico Trading Co.
Dufek, Michael
Consultant -Global Source IT
michael.dufek@tyson.com
703.785.0718
   Contacts Page 83    
+1 (479) 290 -5308
   Contacts Page 84    
Learn more SAP Finacial Material Manufacturing
Look at courses that involve SAP Financial 
Tell Andre to give me more work
Fill out development plan Midyear Review 3/31/25
Wednesday, March 26, 2025 9:51 AM
   Mid Year Review Page 85    
Goals
Monday, March 31, 2025 1:32 PM
   Mid Year Review Page 86    
Questions for Tricia:
Are there any circumstances where working from home might be an option? I noticed that when I had 
the chance to work from home previously, I was able to be really productive and get a lot accomplished 
and even stayed on the clock longer than usual
Doug Kulka says everyone must be in the office. 
How can I log my time in Clarity to accurately reflect my work and ensure it aligns with our projects 
while effectively showcasing my contributions?
Are there any specific skills or areas you think I should focus on currently to grow in my current role?
Can you recommend any resources or training that would help me succeed in my role?
Business Analyst Agile, 
What is the typical career progression timeline for someone in my position?
Personal Performance, stay in a position for a year, 2 years get upgraded, but depends on performance 
levels. 
Solidify Perception and Andre, Not the norm this is the exception
Are there any questions that you would ask if you where in my position that we havent touched on so 
far? 
As we prepare to transition from Phase 1 to Phase 2 of the BOM Portal Master Formulation in 
November, I’m reviewing the relevant documentation. I believe it would be beneficial to connect with 
Jerry, my project manager, or Andre, my coworker, to discuss the key areas of each component 
according to the timeline
Problem Areas:
I believe my main challenge at the moment is understanding our current position in the overall project 
and the direction we are heading overall. I believe it would be beneficial to connect with Andre on a KT 
and discuss the key areas of each component on the timeline. 
Current Courses I've taken/Completed 
Currently going after my ITF+ certification through guild which is a broad baseline IT cert that never 
expires, it tests on everything from hardware, software, to db fundamentals, security. 
Also using Udemy for Business Analysis Fundamentals course that I completed for 8  course hours on 
requirement elicitation, analysis, and specification. 
Greg's work
Spec Change Documentation Summary:
Drafted Documentation:
Related to specification changes and submission processes within BOM Portal.○
Focused on ensuring accurate transmission of data during submissions from BOM Portal ○•10/23/24
Thursday, October 03, 2024 11:01 AM
   Manager One on One Page 87    
Focused on ensuring accurate transmission of data during submissions from BOM Portal 
QA/Dev to SAP.○
Reviewed Test Cases in ALM:
Linked functional requirements to relevant test cases for seamless verification.○
Ensured all test cases matched the functional requirements outlined in the project scope.○•
Wrote Functional Specifications:
Documented the migration of ZPARM table for BOM Portal.○
Provided clear specifications for handling the migration to minimize integration issues.○•
Testing & Monitoring Updates:
Testing Submission Accuracy:
Successfully tested submissions from BOM Portal QA/Dev to SAP.•
Verified accurate transmission and handling of data between systems.••
Post -Cutover Monitoring:
Moved to a new URL as of 10/21.•
Currently in the hypercare period, ensuring stable performance post cutover with active 
monitoring.•
Regression Testing:
Expected completion of regression testing by 11/1, with ongoing monitoring for any 
emerging issues.▪••
Additional Project Updates:
Master Formulation Project (Phase 1):
Progressing towards foundational completion by end of December.•
Phase 1 completion will pave the way for further integration and development in Phase 2.••
Aurora Support Lifecycle:
Researched and documented the end -of-support lifecycle for Aurora. •
Ensured compatibility and planning for future updates and system integrations.•
EAP Access:
Obtained EAP access through ARS as of 10/23/24.▪••
Issue Tracking & Resolutions:
Scrap Factor Discrepancy:
Identified an issue where scrap factor is not displaying correctly in the production BOM, 
while it shows accurately in the finance BOM.•
Monitoring ongoing discussions and potential fixes for how scraps are handled in 
production.••
Supervisor Crewing Report:
Ticket regarding BOM Portal data not populating in the Supervisor Crewing Report.•
Data works correctly for the crewing setup in ESP, but the issue persists in the report.•
Dennis noted that ESP support has been addressing the issue since mid -September, but 
there’s no clear resolution timeline.•
The crewing data from ESP shows up on the report, but the crewing data from the routings 
in BOM Portal does not publish to the report, but returns an error.••
SignalR connection 
We are currently experiencing issues with our SignalR connection logic that need to be 
addressed. We are collaborating with the Deloitte team to resolve these challenges ••
   Manager One on One Page 88    
Goal -Setting: Excel template. Internal Lean Six Sigma Green Belt at Corporate in person. Finance relevant 
to VP's, Project management, leadership training. Presentation training for teams. 
   Manager One on One Page 89    
Overview of the Code Snippet:
updateMaterialAsync Method :
A function that takes plantMaterialModel and plantCode as arguments. •
Uses proxies['plantConfigHub'].invoke.apply() to call UpdateMaterialAsync on 
the server via SignalR.•
AngularJS Context ( $scope.updateMaterialAsync ):
$scope.updateMaterialAsync is a method that calls the server -side 
updateMaterialAsync using the jQuery 
$.connection.plantConfigHub.server.updateMaterialAsync method.•
Uses .done() to handle the promise, updating the material and triggering $scope.
$apply() to update the AngularJS data binding.•
Logs a success message using window.addEventLog() when synchronization completes. •
AngularJS $apply() :
A core AngularJS method that evaluates expressions and triggers a $digest() cycle 
to update the view with any data changes.•
This ensures that changes made within the function are reflected in the UI.•••
Execution Flow Analysis:
Client -Side Initialization :
The updateMaterialAsync function is triggered from the client (e.g., via a UI event). •
The method makes a call using proxies['plantConfigHub'].invoke() to execute 
UpdateMaterialAsync on the server -side plantConfigHub .•
Server -Side Request :
The request generated by invoke() is sent to the server through the SignalR 
connection.•
The server -side SignalR hub ( plantConfigHub ) receives the request and processes 
it, executing the UpdateMaterialAsync method.•
Server Response Handling :
Once the server completes the execution of UpdateMaterialAsync , it returns 
a response.•
The .done() callback on the client -side $scope.updateMaterialAsync
function processes this response. The materialModel returned is used to 
update the material , and $scope.$apply() ensures the AngularJS UI 
reflects this change.•
A log entry is added to indicate that the synchronization is complete.•
Data Binding and UI Updates :
$scope.$apply() triggers a $digest() cycle, which updates the UI by 
checking for changes in the material object and applying them to the 
bound view.•1.1.1.1.•11/6/24
Wednesday, November 06, 2024 11:29 AM
   Manager One on One Page 90    
Work Update:
I've been going through and updating the functional spec document to include the new UI components 
and their functionality:
Status Grid
Alert
Datagrid
Home Screen 
Nav Menu, 
Plant Select,
Status
I have been meeting with PDM and they delivered a query that will be implemented into a powerBI 
report as soon as I get access to the data, I opened a request today for this. 
I began connection testing for A41 and found a defect certification issue between BOMP and PDM. 
Last I checked with Andre, SAP and Zach where troubleshooting this. 
I am too help andre as well with the SAP Reconciliation, still waiting for details from him on this. 
Life Update:
Still not able to get meds
Possibly getting motorcycle in the next couple week
Questions for Tricia:
How do I go about finding a mentor, do you have anyone that you think would be a good fit for me? 
How can I start working on the goals that where cascaded? 
Questions for HR:
How does the contribution match work with ESPP do I need to let the funds stay in tyson til my 1 year 
mark?
Cybersecurity: Matt Bunch
Kevin Whitfield
Robert Fowler (director)
Leroy Sheel (director)
Pradeep Gurague 
Come up with a plan
Click event that 2/26/25
Wednesday, January 15, 2025 2:58 PM
   Manager One on One Page 91    
Dependencies still in 1015, moving to 2133. Role specific to microsoft development team In gitlab. 7/17/2025
Thursday, July 17, 2025 8:29 AM
   Manager One on One Page 92    
✅Task List Based on Manager's Message
1. SAP Reconciliation Report
Complete SAP Reconciliation Report Documentation•
Include logic, assumptions, and any validation steps.•
Confirm expected output format and delivery location (Confluence, SharePoint, etc.).•
2. GCP Join Logic Documentation
Document join logic and naming standards•
For all table relationships used in GCP queries.•
Include integration details with SAP text tables (based on Andre’s recommendation).•
3. Blockers & Resolution Plan
List all key blockers and challenges•
Provide context on why these occurred.•
Identify potential people/resources who could help resolve them.•
4. Jira Sprint Tasks
Complete all Jira tasks assigned for July 2 –16 sprint •
Review backlog for clarity.•
Communicate progress updates proactively.•
5. User Stories
Write, track, and complete 2 user stories•
Confirm format and template (standard “As a [role], I want to [goal], so that [reason]”).•
Ensure acceptance criteria are included.•
Validate at least 4 user stories from teammates•
Confirm what “validation” means (peer review in  ira, acceptance criteria check, etc.).•
6. Knowledge Transfer (KT) Sessions
Attend KT sessions by Joss, Marcelo, or Andre•
Prepare by reviewing current BOM Portal, SAP, and GCP integration topics.•
Take notes and prepare to answer questions after sessions.•
7. Communication
Ensure frequent communication while working remotely •
Daily or every -other -day sync updates. •
Flag any risks/delays immediately to manager and team.•
❓Questions to Clarify with Your Manager
SAP Reconciliation Report1.
Do you want the documentation as a formal Confluence page or in the existing functional spec format?•
Should this include screenshots, sample queries, and validation steps, or only join logic and 
relationships?•
GCP Join Logic & Naming Standards2.
Should the documentation be part of the reconciliation report or a separate artifact?•
Do you want examples of correct vs. incorrect naming?•
Blockers3.
Do you want this as a bulleted list or in  ira under a “Risks” or “Impediments” section?•
User Stories4.
For the two user stories: Do I create new feature/enhancement stories or pick from backlog and re -write 
them?•
Should acceptance criteria be BDD -style (Given -When -Then) or freeform? •
Validation of Stories5.Wednesday, July 30, 2025 1:53 PM
   Manager One on One Page 93    
Validation of Stories5.
What exactly does “validate” entail? (Check acceptance criteria, review test cases, or mark them in Jira?)•
Should I document my validations for reference?•
KT Sessions6.
Is there a calendar or list of scheduled KT sessions I should join?•
Will there be a quiz or formal assessment after these sessions?•
Jira Sprint Tasks7.
Who should I reach out to if I need clarification on certain Jira tasks? (You, Andre, or the developer 
assigned?)•
Performance Expectations8.
How will progress on these goals be measured at the July 30 check -in? (Checklist, demo, or verbal 
update?)•
   Manager One on One Page 94    
End Year Review Process has nothing to do to salary. 
Work anniversary has nothing to do with promotions, year end is completely separate from raises or 
promotions. 
Raises in November, Promotions, Another Cycle of Promotions in April. 
Start with Fernanda, bring it up in one -on-one. Sit back and look at budget, process, managers have to 
get together and see who's eligible. Promotion is also another thing to get to next level. Job profiles, in 
current job profile, are we meeting requirements and what to do action plan to get to that point. Here 
are the people that are ready for promotion then they go to chelsea and all of the managers. 
Callibration session for manager. Everyone brings input of each individual. 
Goals: 
Complete SAP Reconciliation Report in May, 
Send Fernanda documentation,
Complete all Jira tasks Assigned
Validate 4 user stories from your teammates to help distribute
No responses of anyone, Follow UP on Performance Expectations
Wednesday, July 30, 2025 2:01 PM
   Manager One on One Page 95    
Where are we? 
Continue monitoring for spec change errors and connection issues when sending data about •
Implement a solution for handling async operations and caching conflicts in SignalR.•
Finalize preparations for upcoming sprint and SAP  testing.•
Plan for Phase 2 of the BOM Portal Recipe -to-BOM schema migration, focusing on resolving 
inconsistencies and optimizing data structure. Last few days spent in war rooms to address spec 
changes and implementing solutions for handling disconnection events •
D41 is still locked while the Ingestion team works thru their post -upgrade activities.  Plan is for 
that activity to complete before Monday•
We are seeing now correct spec changes coming through in bom portal
Connection testing to SAP
Be Conservative with estimates in deadlines, are we utilizing all of our resources
DR ending this week, hypercare starting next, master formulation
9/17/23
Outstanding Work :
Final Fix : Reimplement the fix that restarts the connection when a disconnect is detected or revert 
to the old website. If we revert, we will need sign -off from the business on the audit, 
acknowledging the risks of not fully enabling DR.•
Remaining tasks :
Update the ZPARM table.•
Finalize documentation.•
Complete user migration.•
Next Steps :
Andre is out until tomorrow, and we anticipate he will need time to run through 
testing upon his return. We’re tentatively targeting  riday afternoon to reimplement 
the fix, and Zach and Andre will verify that production processes are stable over the 
weekend.•1.•
Please let me know if you need any further information or if there are specific points you'd like to 
discuss in more detail.1.
Michael Dufek wants to demo 
Plan to redeploy spec changes done on friday after working hours 
Andre and PDM change URL to point back to new system, if it again doesn't work then we are shifting in 
what we will be doing
I reached out to Marisa Hooper D41 is still locked while the Ingestion team works thru their post -
upgrade activities.  Plan is for testing cycle to begin 9/30 Updated card to 10/4•
in the meantime I would recommend for you to start getting familiar on Tyson’s documentation 
template and see if you can have a draft regarding spec change issues for us to look at when I’m back9/5/24
Thursday, September 05, 2024 9:58 AM
   Weekly Meeting Page 96    
9/17
Current Status:
Set everything back to the legacy URL in PDM.•
Zach completed unit tests this morning for the spec change microservice to check if SignalR reconnects. 
So far, everything appears to be working as expected.•
Deployment Plan:
The deployment is scheduled for Friday after business hours.•
PDM will be on standby to switch back if needed.•
We will conduct extensive testing to identify any remaining issues.•
Testing and Monitoring:
If any issues are detected, we will revert to the current setup.•
A couple of spec changes will be sent through over the weekend.•
True test results will be evaluated on Monday morning.•
SignalR Reconnection Logic:
The system should detect any signal loss and restart the connection automatically, with minimal data 
loss during the restart.•
Previous issues showed some irregularities; unit testing is being performed to ensure stability.•
New methods were added to handle reconnection, detect closed or error states, and signal 
reconnection events.•
Next Steps and Timeline:
need a clear plan to transition out of Disaster Recovery (DR).•
Define roles, responsibilities, and a detailed timeline for the completion of tasks.•
Establish a transition time for moving to the new URL and update the ZPARM table before finalizing the 
move.•
Business approval is contingent upon observing successful spec changes over a trial period.•
Goals:
Ensure operations remain unaffected during the transition.•
account for impacts by PDM and DR.•
Milestones and Responsibilities:
Doug's involvement: Confirm when Doug will start testing .•
Rework the timeline, including exact start times, responsible parties, and progress updates. Read like a 
road map•
Andre will conduct testing on Wednesday and Thursday, reviewing changes made in the spec and web 
application.•9/17/24
Tuesday, September 17, 2024 11:59 AM
   Weekly Meeting Page 97    
New URL Migration and User Monitoring:
31 unique users are using the new URL in production (excluding developers and analysts).•
The migration process is underway with plans to fully switch users to the new URL.•
Monitoring will continue to ensure smooth transition before decommissioning the old URL.•
A report from Okta logs provided insights on user roles and access to plants, with 17% having 
access to multiple plants.•
Performance Issues & Adjustments:
SignalR connection timeout was initially set to 5 minutes, now adjusted to 110 seconds.•
Testing in the lower environment confirmed that reducing the timeout resolves most issues.•
Deployment to production is pending resolution of minor deployment issues.•
Risk Assessment & Mitigation:
Adjusting the timeout setting is considered low risk.•
There is a process to revert to the 5 -minute timeout if needed. •
Monitoring the change will continue in QA and lower environments to ensure stability.•
Communication & User Transition Strategy:
Regular communication will inform users to switch to the new URL.•
A ticket will be created for the security team to track old vs. new URL usage.•
Follow -ups will target users who haven’t switched to the new URL, with direct 
communication to address issues.•
Hypercare Plan:
Proposal to implement a two -week Hypercare period post -cutover. •
Final decision on timing (two weeks vs. one month) remains open for 
discussion.•
Regular monitoring during Hypercare to ensure all users are on the new 
URL.•
Decommissioning the Old URL:
The old URL will remain active until most users transition to the new 
one.•
The transition will only be finalized when users are comfortable, 
following communication reminders.•
Monitoring usage patterns to determine the optimal shutdown date 
for the old URL.•1.1.
Action Items:
Create Ticket –Assign to the security team to monitor users on both the 
old and new URLs.1.
Deploy Changes –Harsha to push the SignalR timeout change to 
production.2.
Follow -Up Communication –Additional reminders to ensure users 
transition to the new URL.3.
Monitoring –Track usage during Hypercare and adjust strategies if 
needed.4.
Determine Hypercare Period –Decide between two weeks or a month for 
Hypercare based on user behavior.5.1.1.1.1.10/15/24
Tuesday, October 15, 2024 11:56 AM
   Weekly Meeting Page 98    
Operating model changed we will be closer with the dev team. 
We will be having seat changes. 
New position hierarchy descriptions changing and levels added.
Our positions are analyst, senior, lead, etc. They are changing that to correlate with market norms we 
will now be product owner, managers, staffed product manager, levels above, staff, two levels above it, 
more room for growth. Mapping new position change, no different salary as of now. 10/24
Thursday, October 24, 2024 10:13 AM
   Weekly Meeting Page 99    
Reorg announced next week
Steerco meeting on the 20th, possibly to be moved back to demo powerbi for plant mix before brad 
leaves
SAP Upgrade testing still needs to get done. 
Still have some DEV testing to do by next friday for BOM Synchronization verification
When it comes to verifying BOM Portal in SAP what needs to be done? 
Ask Jeff and Doug if there are any controls related to bom portal if there are what are they and what the 
test would be
When they preform controls what steps are for test case. We are trying to figure out if we have a test 
case for each control/Requirement has to be linked to a test case. 
Making sure they can preform each of their controls. Andre will get in touch with Doug and Jeff to make 
sure we have it
They are expecting business to run test in ALM before the 15th. Run them in Q. Bucket in ALM in 
"controls  folder" 11/7/24
Thursday, November 07, 2024 10:05 AM
   Weekly Meeting Page 100    
Recipe detail Report taking to long to load 
BOMs breaking refresh working the system goes down they couldn’t update the boms 4/8/2025
Tuesday, April 08, 2025 11:34 AM
   Weekly Meeting Page 101    
4/24/2025
Tuesday, April 22, 2025 11:29 AM
   Weekly Meeting Page 102    
Shoutouts for working late in the night is the culture8/19/2025
Tuesday, August 19, 2025 9:19 AM
   Weekly Meeting Page 103    
Went into ALM and logged test cases for DR Defects
Specifically ESP finding on DR disruption and submission &  QA Testing
Pdm –prep results for spec changes added. 9/13/2024
Friday, September 13, 2024 11:21 AM
   What I'm Doing Page 104    
Linked all requirements in ALM in finance > product costing with their test coverage. 10/21/24
Monday, October 21, 2024 9:53 AM
   What I'm Doing Page 105    
This week I've been helping Andre do some testing in ALM for BOM portal. There were a couple 
additional test cases I loaded in for QA
Sellable wip creation with catch weight 
Finished good  creation with catch weight
So far we've only had one test case fail that'll need further troubleshooting
I've been working on updating the functional spec document for the components we are focusing on in 
this phase which are 
Alerts, plant select, data grid, plant grid, navbar appmenu, 
Assisting Andre with the BOM -PDM Reconciliation
Met with Allan Slette and requested they made a query for us to use in a PBI report that I'll be 
putting together 
Familiarizing myself with the database architecture 
I am reviewing the database and the ER -diagram 
materials, plant -materials, recipes, and how it is actually defined
Working with Kay and the UX/UI Team to gather insights and see how business users are currently 
operating bom portal
Questions for Tricia:
How do I go about getting in on a plant tour? 
Go through the goals 1/28/2025
Tuesday, January 28, 2025 8:22 AM
   What I'm Doing Page 106    
Please include the following statements ( Tuesday before 12 PM)
Status Report Update (7th -11th April) :These should be thorough, complete, and current.
Met with the business, they would like version info, desciption and recipe ID from BOM 
Portal data for use in the reconciliation. ○
Continue working on UX/UI spec document to include all new features/components○
Began investigation mapping out current functionality of plant config module ○•
Key Accomplishments (7th -11th April) : What was completed this week?
Showed off first draft SAP BOM Portal recon PowerBI report to business partners, they were 
happy with the concept and offered suggestions to make it even better.  ○
Pilot session with UX/UI completed for usability testing ○•
Upcoming Activities (14th -18th April): What are your upcoming tasks?
Meet with Ayesha to discuss query and data modeling with new requirements○
Continue updating Functional Spec for UI/UX Phase 2 –Master Formulation ○
Meeting with the business to discuss Plant Config ○
Continuing UX/UI usability testing with Kay for our selected users. ○•Please include the following statements ( Tuesday before 12 PM)
Status Report Update (31th -4th April) :These should be thorough, complete, and current.
Draft PowerBI report documentation for the reconciliation of BOM_MySQL and SAP using 
GCP○
Began querying production data for SAP recon report in GCP○
Continue working on UX/UI spec document to include all new features/components○•
Key Accomplishments (31th -4th April) : What was completed this week?
BOM_MySql data ingested and moved to production ○
Developed working document to guide business discussion around plant config module 
redesign○•
Upcoming Activities (7th -11th April): What are your upcoming tasks?
Meeting with the business to discuss Plant Config Module○
Meeting with Ayesha and Business to discuss SAP Recon Report○
Continue updating Functional Spec for UI/UX Phase 2 –Master Formulation ○•2/15/25
Tuesday, April 15, 2025 1:10 PM
   What I'm Doing Page 107    
Status Report Update (16th -22nd Feb) : I am currently working on: 
Updating the functional spec to include the home page  ▪
Investigating what further is needed from PDM for the reconciliation  ▪
Began Connection Testing in A41 for SAP Upgrade –found defect involving certificate 
issues▪
Began investigating Impact of SAP upgrade, what all it entails moving environment to 
environment▪○
Key Accomplishments (16th -22nd Feb): :   
Met with PDM to better understand what is needed ▪
Updated functional spec to include new components ▪
Scaffold a Power BI report template for PDM data  ▪○
Upcoming Activities (24th -28th Feb): What are your upcoming tasks?  
Implementation of PDM Query for reconciliation ▪
Review UI components in dev environment  ▪
Assist with SAP to BOM Reconciliation  ▪○
○2/25/2025
Wednesday, February 05, 2025 8:11 AM
   What I'm Doing Page 108    
Status Report Update (24th-28th Feb) : I am currently working on: 
Received query back from PDM •
Updated ALM to show blocked connection testing status due to certificate issue with SAP in A41•
Testing for SAP Upgrade specifically validating q41 is ready to move to pre -prod •
Review designs for UX/UI components•○
Key Accomplishments (24th-28th Feb): :   
Updated functional spec to include new components ▪
Completion of SAP Q41 Testing, all passed•
Began reconciliation PowerBI for PDM -BOMP •○
Upcoming Activities (3rd -7thMar): What are your upcoming tasks?  
PDM Reconciliation Continuation (Implementation into PowerBI Report)•
Creation of Jira cards for new sprint•
Discussion of process log page with UX/UI•○3/4/2025
Wednesday, February 26, 2025 10:40 AM
   What I'm Doing Page 109    
Phase 2 -Audit Process: GCP research on existing OLAP/OLTP cubes 
for BOM or BOM Portal data housing
Add
Apps
Description
As a functional and data analyst, I can own all data -intensive spaces from the cloud engineering host 
services, so that I have total understanding of the workspace and project structure and good 
understanding of data composition relevant to BOM specifications and BOM Portal data ingestion 
Acceptance Criteria
Bill of material data is pinpointed for efficient user navigation. •
Tables and views are well registered and effectively contained within functional specification that are 
relevant for the reconciliation reporting between SAP and BOM Portal•
BOM Portal data is identified and well established to consume from the corresponding source•
Business Statement/Value
None
Technical Details
Inspect projects in the GCP Access portal such that data related to BOMs and BOM Portal exist within 
each of them.•
Identify data components and data structures which share information corresponding to BOMs and 
BOM Portal. •
For previous' point scrutiny, all data must be relevant for the reconciliation process between BOM 
Portal and SAP•
Assist with SAP to BOM Reconciliation
Add
Apps
Description
As an analyst, I will develop the architecture for a Power BI report that reconciles data between SAP and 
BOM Portal. This involves identifying the necessary data sources, evaluating scheduling and time constraints, 
and collaborating with stakeholders to ensure the report is built using best practices. 
Acceptance Criteria
Document and validate all necessary data sources for the report. •
Review and document scheduling and time constraints, including a plan to manage these constraints. •
Conduct an initial meeting with Ayesha to gather best practices and document key insights. •
Develop and document the detailed architecture for the Power BI report, ensuring stakeholder approval •
Clearly document all findings, plans, and decisions, and share with the project team and stakeholders. •
Update Functional Specification –  Home Page
Description
As an analyst, I want to continue updating the functional specification for Phase 2 of Master Formulation, 
including all new components and functional information 
Acceptance Criteria
Document all new components and functional information •
Document is accessible through BOM Portal Sharepoint •
PDM PowerBI Report
Add
Apps
Description
As an analyst, I want to build a visual report using the solidified query from PDM, so that I can visualize and 
compare the data between PDM and BOM P 
Acceptance Criteria
Utilize the query from PDM to build a PowerBI report to visualize data comparison •
Validate the report with stakeholders for accuracy and usability •
PDM PowerBI Report
Add
Apps
Description
As an analyst, I want to build a visual report using the solidified query from PDM, so that I can visualize and 
compare the data between PDM and BOM P 
Acceptance Criteria
Utilize the query from PDM to build a PowerBI report to visualize data comparison •
Validate the report with stakeholders for accuracy and usability •
Business Statement/Value
None
Technical DetailsQuestions for Andre:
Where does BOM Portal data live in GCP?
GCP model tables to BOMP EAP -Mapping.xlsx
Status Report Update (3rd-7thMatch ): I am currently working on: 
Helped Ayesha get setup with PowerBI and Prod BOM_MYSQ•
Updating the PowerBI report to be scaffold/template for future PDM -BOM Reconciliation •
Identify data components and data structures which share information corresponding to BOMs 
and BOM Portal. •○
Key Accomplishments (3rd-7thMatch): :   
Updated functional spec to include home page•
Successful go -live for BOM P on Saturday •○
Upcoming Activities (10th -14th March): What are your upcoming tasks?  
Continuation of updating functional spec•
Utilize query from PDM to build and visualize data comparison between BOM and PDM •
Research on GCP BOM Portal Data Housing•
Architecture for Power BI Report•○
ACDOCA
CURRENLTY PHASE 2 UPGRADES HORSE AND CARRIAGEa
DETEMINE WHICH SOURCES TO USE FOR RECON REPORT BOM TO SAP
GLOBAL SOURCE JOINING MID -MARCH
STANDARIZATION OF MASTER DATA.
CONVERSATION WITH ANALYTICS TEAM
INTERVIEWS FOR SENIOR DEVELOPER POSITION
ESP BENJAMIN IS OPEN TO HOLDING WOODEN BOWL. Task List 3/5/2025 -3/18/2025
Tuesday, March 04, 2025 10:23 AM
   What I'm Doing Page 110    
Status Report Update ( 10th -14th March ): I am currently working on: 
Updating functional spec for phase 2 UX/UI•
First draft of PDM -BOM Recon PowerBI report built •
Began mapping fields for SAP recon•○
Key Accomplishments (10th -14th March ): :   
Successful deployment ▪
Finalized query for use in BOM recon▪
Updated functional spec for UX/UI Phase 2 to include Home Page▪○
Upcoming Activities (17th-21stMarch) :What are your upcoming tasks?  
Work with analytics team to see what needs to be ingested to GCP▪
Development first draft PBI report for SAP recon▪
Begin drafting training materials for use on new bom forge▪○3/17/25
Tuesday, March 11, 2025 9:13 PM
   What I'm Doing Page 111    
Status Report Update (17th -21st March)) :In Place Formulation has been live with no problems. We are 
monitoring it closely. Development on homescreen changes and Certificate updates for Preprod. 
Key Accomplishments (17th -21st March:
-Cert issue in Preprod potentially fixed before UAT for SAP.
-Authorization upgrades for Bomforge 
-Home screen Ui changes accomplished
-Hiring efforts for team developers. 
Upcoming Activities (24th -28th March):
-Implement Plant based security authentication. Plant selection will pull data only for allowed plants 
-add generic Dialog to library that can be reused throughout app. 
-establish foundation for Bom Template screen.
Status Report Update (17th -21st March)) :These should be thorough, complete, and current.
Began development of PowerBI report first draft for reconciliation, will need to wait til data 
is ingested and relationship is confirmed in GCP to begin modelling ○
Mapped field of interest in SAP, Bom_MySQL for use in audit process○
Key Accomplishments (17th -21st March)h): 
Documented and mapped SAP to BOM reconciliation○
Updated UI/UX Functional Spec to include home page○
Upcoming Activities (24th -28th March): What are your upcoming tasks?
Identify where SAP and BOM_MySQL data is in GCP○
Testing for SAP upgrade and cert validation○
Write query for reconciliation in GCP for SAP n Bom_MySQL○
Zach implemented a potential fix last night and went to test however AG1 is down. Further testing will 
be needed, for now we are not seeing the issue that we originally saw, will continue testing when SAP 
ag1 is back online3/26
Wednesday, March 26, 2025 9:12 AM
   What I'm Doing Page 112    
Phase 2 bom portal deliverables
PDM reconciliation
Go through UX/UI pages 
Master data –resource deepthi created drafts towards API views
Audit Piece –SAP BOM Portal
Status Report Update (24th -28th March) :These should be thorough, complete, and current.
I have identified where SAP and BOM_MySQL data lives in GCP. We are currently waiting for 
approval to move to prod, CR created. ○
UAT testing for the SAP Upgrade was blocked due to a certificate issue which has since been 
resolved○
Began modeling queries in GCP for SAP n BOM_MySQL data for audit○•
Key Accomplishments (24th -28th March) : What was completed this week?
Connection testing passed in ALM after Zach implemented fix regarding the invalid 
certificate error we where seeing, Defect closed on 3/31/25○
Developed training materials for BOM Forge Users○
Cleaned and updated functional spec for Phase 2 UX/UI to include new components ie. Toast 
Notifications ○•
Upcoming Activities (31th -4th April): What are your upcoming tasks?
Draft PowerBI report for the reconciliation of BOM_MySQL and SAP using GCP○
Once change request is approved and the data is accessible in GCP, Finalize Query for Audit 
process○
Continue working on UX/UI spec document to include all new features/components○
Work with Andre on Plant Config Module Feature○•Things for Andre to Validate before EOD 4/1/25
UI/UX -Update Functional Spec for UI/UX Phase 2
EFI-4775
BOM Portal -Master Formulation_UI_Toast_Notifications
BOM Portal -Master Formulation_UI.docx
Begin Develop Training Materials for BOM Forge Users
EFI-4781
BOMForgeUserGuideV1.docx
Compiled documents and findings related to Audit SAP BOM 
Reconciliation 
Audit -SAP & BOM Reconciliation4/1/2025
Tuesday, April 01, 2025 8:26 AM
   What I'm Doing Page 113    
Please include the following statements ( Tuesday before 12 PM)
Status Report Update .
Met with the business regarding Plant Configuration Module and they are onboard with 
automation and updates ○
Determined additional field will need to be ingested to include unchecked inventory points 
for the SAP Reconciliation Report○
Updated functional spec for SAP Reconciliation Report○•
Key Accomplishments
Successful first meeting with the business showing off our report, they gave great feedback 
and loved what we have so far○
Determined how to check for unchecked inventory points in database to exclude them from 
report○
Finished first round of UX/UI usability testing for the home page and formulation viewer, 
great feedback gathered and additional things to consider. ○•
Upcoming Activities 
Once Recipe_Formulation_XREF is ingested, data will need to be modeled in PowerBI○
Validation of all SQL -based statements for recon ○
Continue updating Functional Spec for UI/UX Phase 2 to include new components ○•As an analyst,  I will develop the architecture for a Power BI report that reconciles data between SAP and 
BOM Portal. This involves identifying the necessary data sources, evaluating scheduling and time constraints, 
and collaborating with stakeholders to ensure the report is built using best practices. 4/8/25
Tuesday, April 08, 2025 10:49 AM
   What I'm Doing Page 114    
Status Report Update (21st -25th April) :
Met with the business to discuss how unchecked inventory points will be reflected in the 
reconciliation report; additional discussions with Andre are needed for final alignment.•
Began the ingestion process with Deepthi for the Recipe_Formulation_XREF table, which will 
be used to identify unchecked inventory points if necessary in the report.•
Reviewed the first round of UX/UI sessions with Kay, addressing business user questions regarding 
the BOM Forge homepage and formulation viewer.•
Key Accomplishments (21st -25th April):
Collaborated with Ayesha to model and organize data in the Power BI SAP Reconciliation Report, 
enhancing readability for business partners to easily view "Not on BOM" and "Not on SAP" 
discrepancies.•
Completed CHARM 8000032892 validity testing related to the material extension issue, updated 
the ALM system with successful test results, and added supporting documentation to the test run.•
Upcoming Activities (28th -2nd May):
Work with Andre to validate the query logic used in the SAP Reconciliation Report.•
Begin the data set comparison between GCP and Domestic BOM Portal data.•
Conduct a meeting with the business to review the updated Power BI report and ensure their 
needs are fully addressed.•
Continue documenting the data analytics and reporting process for reconciliation logic execution.•4/29/2025
Tuesday, April 22, 2025 8:36 AM
   What I'm Doing Page 115    
AUDIT Phase 2 -Audit Process: SAP BOM 
Number consistency validationAs a BOM Portal functional analyst, I need to 
validate consistency between our domestic 
data and SAP's data, so that the mapping of 
BOMs (and by extension Recipes) between 
systems can be immediately achieve on a 
single ratio• Revise the new functionality which 
captures the internally created SAP 
BOM Numbers for every initial 
Recipe Submission
• Ensure alongside the 
Development Engineer on capturing 
the already submitted valid recipes 
in SAP to populate all missing values 
for the corresponding field in the 
RDB (SAP_BOM_NUM)
• Validate continuity of submission 
and correct storage of values
• Validate RDB constraints 
regulation for unique values on 
every SAP_BOM_NUM Row• Create succinct documentation on the 
analysis results
• RDB Manipulation strategy must be 
agreed upon between Developer and 
Product Manager with facultative 
assistance of Architect
• BOM  umber is locally traceable3
AUDIT Phase 2 -Audit Process: BOM 
Structure analysis for Recipe -
component reconciliationAs a BOM Portal Product Owner, I need to 
ensure analysis on the structure of BOM's at 
granular level, so that a detailed 
reconciliation process can be further 
compose for all BOM's components• Analyze linking structure of Legacy 
schema to ensure correct definition 
of a DDL that queries Recipes on the 
right hierarchy and level.
• Inspect corresponding tables (like 
RECIPE_FORMULATION_XREF, 
FORMULATION_STEP, 
CORP_FORMULATION_STEP, et al) 
to visualize data granularity and 
understand the data flow and 
composition.• Analysis must be condensed in a 
succinct document and agreed upon with 
Product Manager.
• Data components can be compared to 
current set on BOM Portal
• Intensive definition of all components 
of recipes to guarantee right 
reconciliation (e.g.: input/packaging 
components and their corresponding 
attributes, cost accounting relevant 
values)4
UX/UI UX Design -Conduct Initial demo 
Sessions of the new interface's 
drafted designs.As a BOM Portal Product Owner, I will 
conduct demo sessions with the primary 
stakeholders from the cost accounting team, 
so that the latest design drafts are 
showcased to our business partners to collect 
user -intensive feedback.• Conduct Demo sessions alongside 
UX designer/developer• Sessions are recorded and feedback is 
centralized on a dedicated document.1
Status Report Update (April 28th –May 2nd)
Validated SQL queries for consistency across GCP and Domestic systems, reducing BOM 
reconciliation errors.•
Documented reconciliation logic and stored it in a shared repository to support cross -functional 
alignment and audit readiness.•
Key Accomplishments (April 28th-May 2nd)
Held a successful meeting with the business to review the PowerBI report. By the end of the 
session, stakeholders were already identifying strategic use cases and discussing next steps for 
adoption.•
Upcoming Activities (May 5th-9th)
Validate consistency of SAP BOM Numbers to ensure 1:1 traceability between Recipes and SAP 
BOMs.•
Perform component -level BOM structure analysis to support detailed reconciliation logic. •
Conduct demo sessions with Cost Accounting stakeholders to showcase interface design updates 
and gather feedback.•✅SAP BOM Number Consistency Validation•
Activity: Validated the consistency of SAP BOM Numbers between Domestic and SAP systems. •
Business Value: Ensures 1:1 traceability of Recipes to SAP BOMs, enabling clean cross -system 
reconciliation and reducing integration errors.•
Progress: Collaborated with Development to ensure SAP_BOM_NUM is accurately captured and stored 
for all submitted Recipes.•
✅BOM Structure Analysis for Recipe -Component Reconciliation
Activity: Analyzed the component -level structure of BOMs to support detailed reconciliation efforts. •
Business Value: Supports accurate cost accounting and recipe matching by identifying gaps in input and 
packaging component mapping.•
Progress: Evaluated schema relationships between key tables (RECIPE_FORMULATION_XREF, 
FORMULATION_STEP, etc.) to understand hierarchy and data flow.•
✅Initial UX Demo Sessions
Activity: Conducted demo sessions with Cost Accounting stakeholders to review the drafted interface 
design updates.•
Business Value: Accelerates UI alignment with business needs and enhances adoption by incorporating 
user -driven feedback early in the design cycle.•
Progress: Sessions were recorded; feedback is being documented and synthesized for iteration. •5/5/2025
Thursday, May 01, 2025 3:01 PM
   What I'm Doing Page 116    
(3 Points)
Title: Update Functional Spec for UX/UI –Process Page
Description
As an analyst, I want to continue updating the functional spec for phase 2 UI/UX of Master Formulation, 
including all new components and functional information.
Acceptance Criteria:
Document New Components and Functional Information:
Identify and document all new UI/UX components introduced:•
List all new components added in phase 2.•
Include screenshots or wireframes of the new components.•
Include detailed functional information, user interactions, and design specifications:•
Describe the purpose and functionality of each component.•
Detail user interactions (e.g., button clicks, form submissions).•
Provide design specifications (e.g., dimensions, color schemes, fonts).•
Document is Accessible on SharePoint:
Upload the updated functional spec document to the designated SharePoint folder.•
Verify that the document is accessible to all relevant stakeholders and team members:•
Check permissions to ensure viewing and editing access.•
Technical Details
Collaborate with the UI/UX design team to gather accurate information.•
Ensure the document is structured, organized, and easy to navigate.•
(2 Points)
Title: Audit Process –BOM & SAP
Description
As an analyst, I want to implement the validated mappings of BOMs so that we can update the 
reconciliation report with further accuracy.
Acceptance Criteria
BOM number is populated in PowerBI report from SAP_BOM_NUM:
Ensure the SAP_BOM_NUM field is correctly mapped and displayed.•
Query is revised to include SAP_BOM_NUM:
Update SQL or DAX queries to include the SAP_BOM_NUM field.•
Technical Details
Identify and document new report logic.•
Validate the mappings to ensure accuracy.•
Test the updated report to confirm SAP BOM numbers display correctly.•5/13/2025
Tuesday, May 13, 2025 8:52 AM
   What I'm Doing Page 117    
(2 Points)
Title: Phase 2 –Implementation Process: BOM Structure Reconciliation for Recipe -Component
Description
As a BOM Portal Product Owner, I need to implement a detailed reconciliation process for BOM 
components at a granular level, ensuring that the structure of BOMs is accurately reflected and 
reconciled with the recipe components.
Acceptance Criteria
Implementation must be documented and agreed upon with the Product Manager:
Create a detailed implementation plan.•
Obtain Product Manager approval.•
Data components must be reconciled with the current set on BOM Portal:
Compare and reconcile BOM components with SAP components.•
Address and resolve all discrepancies.•
Ensure all components of recipes are accurately defined and reconciled:
Define and reconcile input/packaging components and their attributes.•
Include values relevant to cost accounting.•
Business Statement / Value
Accurate reconciliation of BOM components ensures data integrity and supports cost accounting and 
inventory management.
Technical Details
Develop and run scripts to reconcile data across tables (e.g., RECIPE_FORMULATION_XREF, 
FORMULATION_STEP, CORP_FORMULATION_STEP).•
Validate the reconciled data to ensure accuracy.•
(1 Point)
Title: Monitor PowerBI Report Health and Data Integrity
Description
As an analyst, I want to actively monitor the PowerBI report for data load success, data accuracy, and 
report performance, so that any issues can be quickly identified and resolved.
Acceptance Criteria
Establish Monitoring Process:
Set up a regular schedule to review report refresh status and data accuracy.•
Verify that the related fields are loading correctly after each refresh.•
Check report performance and ensure load times remain within acceptable limits.•
Respond to Issues:
Document and escalate any discrepancies or failures to the appropriate team.•
Technical Details
Utilize PowerBI Service refresh history and dataset health dashboards.•
Work with DICE and GCP ingestion teams as needed for backend data integrity.•
Maintain a monitoring log accessible to the team on SharePoint.•
   What I'm Doing Page 118    
   What I'm Doing Page 119    
Everyone
Please include the following statements ( Tuesday before 12 PM)
Status Report Update  (12th -16th May) :These should be thorough, complete, and current.
Met with the business to demo and gain feedback about the current design of BOM Forge○
Began component level analysis for SAP Reconciliation which will allow the business to 
identify discrepancies with more granularity. ○
Began validating the filling of SAP_BOM_Number○•
Key Accomplishments  (12th -16th May) : What was completed this week?
Validated that SAP_BOM_NUM is initially being filled (more work will be needed once 
backfilled to validate materials○
Lead SAP Reconciliation efforts based on feedback and requirements gathered by the 
business○•
Upcoming Activities (19th -23rd May): What are your upcoming tasks?
Continue to refine and monitor the PowerBI report based on feedback from the business○
Update functional spec to include all new design elements○
Implement component level granularity into SAP Reconciliation Report○•5/20/25
Tuesday, May 20, 2025 9:01 AM
   What I'm Doing Page 120    
Status Report Update  (19th -23rd May) :These should be thorough, complete, and current.
Working through analyzing BOM_MySQL for the component level analysis for the SAP 
Reconciliation, discovering data discrepancies in bom_mysql and bom portal, working on 
how to validate the query. ○
Current report is still showing unchecked inventory points in certain plants○•
Key Accomplishments  (19th -23rd May) : What was completed this week?
Confirmed details for report
Recipe▪
Throughputs (Base Quantity)▪
Crew (3rd Standard Value)▪
Recipe Steps▪
Resource Assignment.▪
BOM▪
Components (WIP/Phantom/Ingredients/Packaging)▪
Usage Percentage▪
Scrap Factor▪
Seconds / Byproducts▪
Seconds / Byproducts Percentage▪
Item Category (Stock / Non -Stock, Etc.) ▪
Unit of Measure▪○•
Upcoming Activities (23rd-27thMay): What are your upcoming tasks?
Continue to refine and validate the BOM_MySQL Query for reconciliation○
Begin investigation of ingested tables in GCP for SAP and BOM_MySQL○
Continue to update and refine PowerBI report based on feedback gathered in ongoing 
meetings. ○•Everyone
Please include the following statements ( Tuesday before 12 PM)
Status Report Update  (12th -16th May) :These should be thorough, complete, and current.
Met with the business to demo and gain feedback about the current design of BOM Forge○
Began component level analysis for SAP Reconciliation which will allow the business to 
identify discrepancies with more granularity. ○
Began validating the filling of SAP_BOM_Number○•
Key Accomplishments  (12th -16th May) : What was completed this week?
Validated that SAP_BOM_NUM is initially being filled (more work will be needed once 
backfilled to validate materials○
Lead SAP Reconciliation efforts based on feedback and requirements gathered by the 
business○•
Upcoming Activities (19th -23rd May): What are your upcoming tasks?
Continue to refine and monitor the PowerBI report based on feedback from the business○
Update functional spec to include all new design elements○
Implement component level granularity into SAP Reconciliation Report○•
1114
1057 showing unchecked
Why is zeeland not returning the home screen with what details show
Table 1504 
Compare this with berryville to clarksville
Clarksville Unchecked inventory point 906383 recipe number
Angelica 
Can we wipe everything and reload all from SAP and just 
Split this card into 3 distinct cards
Analysis of SAP Tables and how they correlate to BOM Portal tables for SAP Reconciliation1.
Defined query logic and how data components can be compared to current set on bom portal2.
Business Requirements document for reconciliation on component level3.
Analysis must be condensed in a succinct document and agreed upon with Product Manager.•
Data components can be compared to current set on BOM Portal•
Intensive definition of all components of recipes to guarantee right reconciliation (e.g.: 
input/packaging components and their corresponding attributes, cost accounting relevant values)•
Business Statement/Value
None
Technical Details
Analyze linking structure of Legacy schema to ensure correct definition of a DDL that queries Recipes 
on the right hierarchy and level.•
Inspect corresponding tables (like RECIPE_FORMULATION_XREF, FORMULATION_STEP, 
CORP_FORMULATION_STEP, et al) to visualize data granularity and understand the data flow and 
composition.•Card 1: SAP to BOM Portal Table Reconciliation Mapping
Title: SAP and BOM Portal Table Correlation for Recipe Reconciliation
Objective: Analyze how SAP tables map to BOM Portal tables to support accurate reconciliation.
Scope:
Analyze linking structure of legacy schema•
Inspect and document key SAP tables to be used in report•
Ensure correct  field mappings between SAP and BOM Portal.•
to be validated with Product Manager.•
Deliverables:
SAP-to-BOM table mapping document •
Recommended DDL/query logic structure•
Visual representation of data flow and granularity•
Card 2: Query Logic for Component -Level Reconciliation
Title: Define Query Logic for Component -Level Reconciliation
Objective: Develop reusable SQL logic to reconcile component -level recipe data between SAP and BOM 
Portal.
Scope:
Define the exact data points used in BOM Portal vs SAP for reconciliation.•
Include usage %, scrap %, component descriptions, material numbers, units of measure, etc.•
Identify how inputs (raw, packaging) and cost -relevant fields should match across systems. •
Deliverables:
Finalized SQL logic for reconciliation•
Documentation of reconciliation metrics•
Examples comparing SAP and BOM Portal results•
Card 3: Business Requirements for Reconciliation Document
Title: Business Requirements Definition for Component Reconciliation
Objective: Document the business requirements for SAP -BOM Portal reconciliation to guide technical 
implementation.
Scope:
Define expected reconciliation outcomes at the component level.•
Specify which fields are considered cost -relevant and need to be matched. •
Clarify the business value and expected accuracy thresholds.•
Ensure documentation is reviewed and agreed upon by the Product Manager.•
Deliverables:
Business Requirements Document (BRD)•
Approval sign -off from Product Manager •Card 1: SAP to BOM Portal Table Reconciliation Mapping
Title: SAP and BOM Portal Table Correlation for Recipe Reconciliation
Objective: Analyze how SAP tables map to BOM Portal tables to support accurate reconciliation.
Scope:
Analyze linking structure of legacy schema•
Inspect and document key SAP tables to be used in report•
Ensure correct  field mappings between SAP and BOM Portal.•
to be validated with Product Manager.•
Card 1: SAP to BOM Portal Table Reconciliation Mapping
Title: SAP and BOM Portal Table Correlation for Recipe Reconciliation
Objective: Analyze how SAP tables map to BOM Portal tables to support accurate reconciliation.
Scope:
Analyze linking structure of legacy schema•
Inspect and document key SAP tables to be used in report•
Ensure correct  field mappings between SAP and BOM Portal.•
to be validated with Product Manager.•
Card 2: Query Logic for Component -Level Reconciliation
Title: Define Query Logic for Component -Level Reconciliation
Objective: Develop reusable SQL logic to reconcile component -level recipe data between SAP and BOM 
Portal.
Scope:
Define the exact data points used in BOM Portal vs SAP for reconciliation.•
Include usage %, scrap %, component descriptions, material numbers, units of measure, etc.•
Identify how inputs (raw, packaging) and cost -relevant fields should match across systems. •
Card 3: Business Requirements for Reconciliation Document
Title: Business Requirements Definition for Component Reconciliation
Objective: Document the business requirements for SAP -BOM Portal reconciliation to guide technical 
implementation.
Scope:
Define expected reconciliation outcomes at the component level.•
Specify which fields are considered cost -relevant and need to be matched. •
Clarify the business value and expected accuracy thresholds.•
Ensure documentation is reviewed and agreed upon by the Product Manager.•Card 1
Title: SAP and BOM Portal Table Correlation for Recipe Reconciliation
Description:
Analyze and document how SAP tables map to BOM Portal tables to support accurate recipe data 
reconciliation. This includes investigating legacy linking structures and validating field relationships to 
ensure the data flows align with expected logic.
Acceptance Criteria:
Documented linking structure of the legacy schema.•
List of SAP tables required for reconciliation is identified and reviewed.•
Field mapping between SAP and BOM Portal is defined and documented.•
Mapping document is validated and approved by the Product Manager.•
Card 2
Title: Define Query Logic for Component -Level Reconciliation
Description:
Develop and document reusable SQL logic that supports comparison of component -level recipe data 
across SAP and the BOM Portal. This includes ensuring accurate calculation and alignment of fields such 
as usage %, scrap %, material numbers, and cost -relevant attributes.
Acceptance Criteria:
List of reconciliation data points (e.g., usage %, scrap %, material description, UOM) is defined.•
SQL logic is created and validated for comparing BOM Portal and SAP data.•
Query results are reviewed for alignment on key component -level values. •
Logic is reusable across multiple material/plant/version scenarios.•
Card 3
Title: Business Requirements Definition for Component Reconciliation
Description:
Capture and formalize the business requirements for accurate reconciliation of recipe components 
between SAP and BOM Portal. Define which values need to align, the business impact of mismatches, 
and thresholds for acceptable variances.
Acceptance Criteria:
Business -defined reconciliation goals and required accuracy levels are documented. •
Cost -relevant fields and key attributes are identified and prioritized.•
Document includes a clear business statement and rationale.•
Business Requirements Document is reviewed and signed off by the Product Manager.•5/27/25
Tuesday, May 27, 2025 10:28 AM
   What I'm Doing Page 121    
Status Report Update (May 25th –May 30th): 
Focused on advancing component -level reconciliation between SAP and the BOM Portal. refining 
SQL queries to match stakeholder reporting needs.  •
Continued support for UI development efforts in Phase 3 of the BOM Portal. •
Key Accomplishments (May 25th –May 30th): 
Investigated restricted_confidential -tagged tables in GCP; initiated ARS requests for access to 
restricted tables •
Created a detailed Component -Level Reconciliation Analysis document outlining methodology, 
mapped fields, and known SAP/BOM discrepancies. •
Partnered with Hari to discover key fields and tables for the report •
Upcoming Activities (June 2nd –June 6th): 
Finalize SQL Query Logic for SAP •
Prepare documentation based on cleaned SQL queries for review •
Further ingestion of BOM_Mysql data to the data lake based on finalized BOM_MySql Query •
•6/3/2025
Tuesday, June 03, 2025 11:23 AM
   What I'm Doing Page 122    
Phase 1: Recipe Header Analysis
Investigate throughput and crewing issues•
Examine system discrepancies and validate if they're tied to how data is being pulled or 
structured.
Review join conditions•
Ensure recipe headers, resources, and operations are correctly linked with no orphaned or 
duplicated joins.
Validate control key filtering logic•
Confirm that only relevant operations (e.g., PI05) are being evaluated for throughput and 
crewing.
Determine logic for most recent records•
Standardize approach for pulling only the latest valid entry for each record (e.g., max valid -from 
date).
Run initial header query•
Execute a standalone query to validate the logic and return recipe metadata.
Phase 2: Operations Data Extraction
Build operation -level query •
Query operation steps tied to recipes, including resources and control keys.
Verify costing relevance•
Ensure costing indicators (e.g., flags or checkboxes) are available and interpretable.
Validate throughput and crewing pull•
Confirm the right operation types are being evaluated for performance metrics.
Cross -check operation scope•
Filter to include only active and relevant operation steps for the target production recipes.
Phase 3: Material Information
Extract BOM structure data•
Retrieve BOMs, components, and how they relate to primary materials and recipes.
Include operational context•
Connect BOM components to their operation steps for traceability and usage tracking.
Validate item -specific metadata •
Ensure values like scrap percentage, category, and phantom indicators are accessible and 
accurate.
Request ingestion for missing BOM Portal tables•
Identify BOM Portal material/component tables not yet ingested and submit formal requests 
(e.g., for items such as item category, change number, phantom status, etc.).
Phase 4: Reconciliation & Modeling
Compare extracted data to BOM Portal UI•
Manually or programmatically align data from queries with what's shown in the BOM Portal.
Identify and document discrepancies•
Track mismatches in metrics, missing data, or out -of-sync records.
Prepare data for Power BI•
Shape and clean the dataset for modeling, applying standard naming and formatting rules.
Collaborate on dashboard development•
Support the visualization team (e.g., Ayesha) with field mappings and layout feedback.
Log ingestion dependencies•
Track BOM Portal or SAP tables that were required for reconciliation but not initially available.
Phase 5: Documentation Updates
Revise reconciliation documentation•
Update logic, steps, and findings in the reconciliation procedure document.
Maintain updated data dictionary•
Ensure every table and column is defined, with sources and transformation logic.
Track table ingestion requests and approvals•
Maintain a running list of all pending and completed table ingestions, who requested them, their 
status, and why each was needed for reconciliation.Phase 4: Reconciliation & Modeling
Compare extracted data to BOM Portal UI•
Manually or programmatically align data from queries with what's shown in the BOM Portal.
Identify and document discrepancies•
Track mismatches in metrics, missing data, or out -of-sync records.
Prepare data for Power BI•
Shape and clean the dataset for modeling, applying standard naming and formatting rules.
Collaborate on dashboard development•
Support the visualization team (e.g., Ayesha) with field mappings and layout feedback.
Log ingestion dependencies•
Track BOM Portal or SAP tables that were required for reconciliation but not initially available.
Phase 5: Documentation Updates
Revise reconciliation documentation•
Update logic, steps, and findings in the reconciliation procedure document.
Maintain updated data dictionary•
Ensure every table and column is defined, with sources and transformation logic.
Track table ingestion requests and approvals•
Maintain a running list of all pending and completed table ingestions, who requested them, their 
status, and why each was needed for reconciliation.Split Cards
Thursday, June 05, 2025 10:33 AM
   What I'm Doing Page 123    
Status Report Update (2nd June -6th June): 
Query is still in progress, so far I’ve been able to query plant code, recipe group, recipe group 
counter, bom number, alt bom, bom usage, primary material number, primary description, 
Throughput, Crewing, Component Material Number, Component Description, usage percentage, 
scrap percentage (global), formulation quantity •
Still figuring out how to pull all scrap percentages (Assembly, Component, Operation). Currently 
pulling global scrap and not production -specific scrap values •
Key Accomplishments (2nd June -6th June): 
Resolved an issue where the table row count was not matching the count of discrepancies 
shown on the current reconciliation report. Implemented row -count logic to correctly divide and 
tally entries. •
Upcoming Activities (9th June -14th June): 
Finalize written analysis and bigquery report •
Develop PowerBI Dashboard •
Begin building visuals for comparisons •
Stakeholder Alignment –Follow up with feasibility report and define requirements for parsing 
production -specific values, not just global •6/10/2025
Tuesday, June 10, 2025 11:06 AM
   What I'm Doing Page 124    
Status Report Update (29thMay –14thJune) 
SAP & BOM Portal Reconciliation:
Built and refined BigQuery SQL queries to validate throughput, crewing, scrap %, and usage 
% at the component level across SAP and BOM Portal data.○
Resolve access for restricted tables and improve reconciliation accuracy.○•
Key Accomplishments (29th May –14th June)
Stakeholder Engagement:
Collected and summarized feedback and pain points from business users regarding the 
current report and ongoing reconciliation efforts.○•
Documentation:
Updated functional specs guides to reflect the new reconciliation logic for component 
reconciliation between SAP and BOM Portal through GCP. Inclusion of queries used as well 
as reconciliation logic. ○•
Upcoming Activities (16th June –20th June)
Finalize API column names and schedule approval with master data stewards to prevent sprint 
delays.•
Continue enhancing reconciliation queries, focusing on scrap calculations and change tracking.•
Update Jira stories, documentation, and training resources as new requirements come in.•
Partner with GCP, DICE, and someone from our team (Ayesha, Deepthi) to ingest the remaining 
tables needed for the report •6/14/25
Tuesday, June 17, 2025 1:09 PM
   What I'm Doing Page 125    
Everyone
Please include the following statements ( Tuesday before 12 PM)
Status Report Update  (23th June -27th June): These should be thorough, complete, and current.
Finalized and tested iteration 1 of SQL logic for SAP Recipe extraction based on C203 structure○
Coordinated with Anishka and DICE team for ingestion of missing SAP recipe -related tables into 
GCP.○
Reviewed  SAP backfill validation logic and found discrepancies in the data we are fetching for 
the backfill, ongoing effort to reconcile SAP and BOM Portal. ○•
Key Accomplishments (23th June -27th June): What was completed this week?
Completed component -level iteration 1 of the Recipe reconciliation query. ○
Began scaffolding out full query to reconcile SAP and BOM P, will be implemented as soon as 
ingestion of missing BOM tables is done. ○•
Upcoming Activities (30th June -4th July): What are your upcoming tasks?
Finalize Power BI dashboard model for BOM -SAP alignment reporting. ○
Begin user story creation for requests and other constraints ○
Assist in preparation of design sprint planning with UX team and backend devs.○
Finalize Power BI dashboard model for BOM -SAP alignment reporting (Ayesha) ○
Participate in cross -functional sync with the PLM integration team (SpecRight discussion). ○•
The next sprint opens July 2, with the following sprint July 9 -22. 
First, Replace EFI -5077 with the following card: "Ingestion Process of BOM Component Data" this will make it 
so that I can close all my cards on time, let me know if you have an issue with this. 
Then add " BOM & SAP Component Reconciliation Data Model in GCP" to Sprint 25.Q4.1. I know it's a 6 point 
card, but it really can't be split up it just has to get done so that we can continue with the report. I know I'll 
have one week to do this. I will be communicative out the gate if I see any issues arrise and will adjust 
accordingly. 
All other cards to be added to Sprint 25.Q4.2. Realistically Ayesha can begin modelling data in powerbi in 
Q4.2 
FY25.Q3.7
2 Points
EPIC: EFI -4698: AUDIT BOM & SAP Reconciliation Data Scope
TITLE: Ingestion Process of BOM Component Data 
Description :
As a BOM Portal IT Product Owner, I need to fully own and oversee the ingestion process of BOM component 
data into GCP so that all fields required for SAP reconciliation audit reporting are consistently available, 
validated, and mapped for downstream use in analytics and reconciliation reporting.
This includes validating the source data structure, coordinating ingestion with data engineering, and ensuring 
BOM_Portal and SAP datasets are aligned to support 1:1 component -level reconciliation.
Acceptance Criteria: 
Identify and document all BOM component -related tables required for reconciliation
Validate that each required field (e.g., material, usage %, scrap %, step reference) is available in the 
source MySQL tables•6/24/2025
Tuesday, June 24, 2025 8:16 AM
   What I'm Doing Page 126    
source MySQL tables
Coordinate ingestion into GCP with the data engineering team•
Validate successful ingestion •
Ensure table availability and access in GCP for analytics/reporting (BigQuery)•
Business Statement/Value:
Ensures a complete and reliable data pipeline to support the BOM & SAP reconciliation initiative. A fully 
validated ingestion process establishes trust in the data and enables accurate reporting, discrepancy 
detection, and audit traceability for critical business processes such as cost accounting and production 
planning.
FY25.Q4.1
6 Points 
EPIC: EFI -4698: AUDIT –BOM & SAP Reconciliation Data Scope
TITLE: BOM & SAP Component Reconciliation Data Model in GCP
Description:
Develop a GCP -based data model that enables 1:1 comparison between BOM Portal components and SAP 
components for reconciliation. This model must identify and classify discrepancies, specifically components 
that exist in one system but not the other. The model will support core costing and production processes by 
including component -level attributes across resource, operation, input, packaging, and secondary material 
data.
Acceptance Criteria:
GCP model aligns BOM Portal and SAP components using standardized keys•
Query flags discrepancies as:
Exists in BOM only○
Exists in SAP only○
Matches in both○•
Attributes captured in the first iteration of the model include:
Plant Code○
Recipe Group○
Recipe Group Counter○
BOM Number○
Alt BOM○
BOM Usage○
Primary Material Number○
Primary UoM○
Primary Material Description○
Throughput○
Crewing○
Component Material Number○
Component Description○
Usage Percent○
Scrap Percent○
Formulation Quantity○
Component UoM○
Item Category○•
Business Value / Statement:
Improves data integrity and trust across costing and production systems by ensuring BOM Portal and SAP are 
synchronized at the component level. Enables accurate analysis of discrepancies and prevents production or 
costing errors caused by incomplete or inconsistent BOM data.
Technical Details:
Normalize fields for comparison (e.g., material code, plant, step reference)•
Use left/right/full joins to detect missing entries across systems•
Tag records with flags: only_in_sap , only_in_bom , match •
   What I'm Doing Page 127    
Tag records with flags: only_in_sap , only_in_bom , match •
Output: Unified reconciliation table with all relevant attributes•
Downstream Usage: Power BI reports, audit dashboards, stakeholder review•
FY25.Q4.2
3 points
EPIC: EFI -4698: AUDIT –BOM & SAP Reconciliation Design Documentation
TITLE: Design Document: Power BI Integration for BOM & SAP Reconciliation Report
Description:
Create a comprehensive design document outlining the structure, layout, data model, visuals, and logic 
behind the Power BI report used to visualize BOM and SAP reconciliation data from GCP. This document will 
serve as a blueprint for building the report and ensuring alignment across engineering, BI, and business 
stakeholders. It should clearly define all visuals, data sources, field mappings, filters, user experience 
expectations, and security considerations.
Acceptance Criteria:
Document includes a summary of the report's purpose, audience, and business goals•
Data source architecture is clearly defined, including GCP BigQuery tables or views used•
Layout mockups for each report page (e.g., Summary, Drilldown, Component Detail)•
Definition of all visuals:•
Summary cards (total, matched, SAP -only, BOM -only) •
Discrepancy charts by plant, material type, or component group•
Component -level tables/matrices with formatting for discrepancy flags •
Slicer/filter logic: Plant, Material, Step, BOM Type, Discrepancy Type•
Drillthrough functionality design for navigating from summary to detail•
Tooltip strategy for enhancing context (e.g., usage %, scrap %, source system)•
Row -Level Security (RLS) design (if applicable)•
Certified dataset plan and refresh strategy•
Sign-off section for business stakeholder review and approval•
Business Value / Statement:
Establishes a clear, standardized framework for developing the BOM & SAP reconciliation report in Power BI. 
This design document ensures alignment between technical teams and business users before development 
begins, reducing rework and accelerating delivery of a critical visibility tool for Finance, Costing, and 
Manufacturing teams.
Technical Details:
Source System: GCP BigQuery (BOM_MySQL and SAP reconciliation model)•
Target Tool: Power BI (Desktop and Service)•
DAX Measures:
Total Components○
Match Count○
SAP-only / BOM -only Counts ○
Discrepancy Rates by Category○•
FY25.Q4.2
1 point
EPIC: EFI -4698: AUDIT –BOM & SAP Reconciliation Data Scope
TITLE: Review: Power BI Report for BOM & SAP Reconciliation (Iteration 1)
Description:
As the BOM Portal Product Owner, I need to formally review the first iteration of the Power BI report 
developed by Ayesha, based on the previously approved design document. This includes validating visuals, 
data accuracy, filter behavior, and overall usability. Feedback will be consolidated and shared with the BI 
team prior to final approval and dashboard certification.
Acceptance Criteria:
Confirm report reflects the logic defined in the approved design document•
Confirm correct use of visuals:•
Summary cards (e.g., total components, matched, SAP -only, BOM -only) •
   What I'm Doing Page 128    
Summary cards (e.g., total components, matched, SAP -only, BOM -only) •
Bar/column charts grouped by plant, material type, discrepancy type•
Matrix with conditional formatting for discrepancy flags•
Test and verify slicers (Plant, Material, BOM Type, Step, Discrepancy Type)•
Review drillthrough functionality to ensure smooth navigation to component detail•
Validate tooltips provide helpful context (e.g., usage %, source, scrap %)•
Confirm refresh schedule and certified dataset configuration•
Business Value / Statement:
Ensures the Power BI report aligns with business needs and technical expectations, allowing Finance, Ops, 
and Costing teams to trust and act on the insights. Thorough review avoids rework and ensures report 
reliability before broader stakeholder rollout.
Technical Details:
Report Developer: Ayesha•
Data Source: GCP BigQuery reconciliation model (SAP + BOM_Portal)•
Target Tool: Power BI Desktop + Service•
Report Iteration: v1 based on Q4.1 design document•
Review Due: Tuesday before 12 PM (July 1st) •
Location: Power BI Workspace [insert workspace name]•
Additional Notes:•
Review documented in status report for June 23 –27 •
Follows successful ingestion validation and initial SQL logic completion•
Dependencies: Finalized ingestion of BOM tables, SAP backfill reconciliation•
FY25.Q4.2
2 points 
EPIC: EFI -4189: BOM Foundation UX/UI
TITLE: Update Functional Spec Document for UX/UI -General 
Description:
As an IT Product Owner, I need to coordinate with the UI/UX and development teams and write the 
functional specification document so that all new components and functional information is documented.
Acceptance Criteria: 
Identify and document all new UI/UX components introduced:
List all new components added ○
Include screenshots or wireframes of the new components.○
Include detailed functional information, user interactions, and design specifications:○•
Describe the purpose and functionality of each component.
Detail user interactions (e.g., button clicks, form submissions).○
Provide design specifications from Figma(e.g., dimensions, color schemes, fonts). ○•
Business Value/ Statement:
This document ensures a shared understanding between design, development, and business teams. By 
maintaining detailed, up -to-date specifications, the team reduces development errors, increases 
efficiency during implementation, and ensures the final UI matches business requirements and design 
standards. It supports scalable development and better onboarding for new team members. 
Technical Details:
Design Source: Figma (with links to specific screens and components)•
SharePoint for document management•
Document Scope: Covers all components added during the current and previous sprints•
   What I'm Doing Page 129    
Please include the following statements ( Tuesday before 12 PM)
Status Report Update  (30th June -4th July): 
This week, I focused heavily on completing and validating the component -level 
reconciliation between the BOM Portal (MySQL) and SAP (GCP). I made significant progress 
on the union query that aligns data using plant, material, and version keys, ensuring 
normalization (e.g., padding with leading zeroes) for accurate comparison. I continued 
validating throughput, crewing, component material, usage percentage, scrap percentage, 
and UOMs by reconciling RECIPE , FORMULATION_STEP , and STEP_COMPONENT data with 
SAP source tables like PLPO, STPO, and MAST.○
Additionally, I finalized both the SAP and BOM Portal Queries seperately that will be 
unioined for PowerBI modeling with Ayesha. I had a meeting with Andre to align on current 
pain points with the report process. ○•
Key Accomplishments (30th June -4th July): What was completed this week?
Developed a working query for both BOM Portal and SAP data for component -level 
reconciliation.○
Normalized key fields (SAP version numbers, material numbers) across systems for accurate 
joins.○
Reconciled throughput and crewing fields for PI05 -controlled steps. ○
Confirmed consistency of SAP data in BigQuery prod○
Documented progress in sprint planning and discussed additional cards for next sprint.○•
Upcoming Activities (7th July -11th July): What are your upcoming tasks?
Finalize the GCP -based unified reconciliation model to enable 1:1 component comparison 
between BOM Portal and SAP.○
Normalize keys (material, plant, version, step) and classify discrepancies as SAP -only, BOM -
only, or matched.○
Include all required attributes: throughput, crewing, usage %, scrap %, UOMs, step 
descriptions, item categories, etc.○
Validate output for ingestion into Power BI.○
Draft and finalize a design document covering Power BI page layout, visuals, filters, and UX 
flow.○
Define visual types (summary cards, drillthrough, matrix), slicer logic, tooltip strategy, and 
RLS requirements.○
Align with Ayesha and Product Manager before development proceeds.○
Conduct formal review of Ayesha’s first iteration of the Power BI report.○
Collaborate with UX/UI and dev teams to update the functional spec for new components.○
I am currently testing a working reconciliation query, today I'll be finalizing the tables and 
their relationships and supplying Ayesha with all the documentation she needs to be begin 
modeling in pbi •First, Replace EFI -5077 with the following card: "Ingestion Process of BOM Component Data" this will 
make it so that I can close all my cards on time, let me know if you have an issue with this.  
Then add " BOM & SAP Component Reconciliation Data Model in GCP" to Sprint 25.Q4.1. I know it's a 6 
point card, but it really can't be split up it just has to get done so that we can continue with the report. I 
know I'll have one week to do this. I will be communicative out the gate if I see any issues arrise and will 
adjust accordingly.  
All other cards to be added to Sprint 25.Q4.2. Realistically Ayesha can begin modelling data in powerbi in 
Q4.2  
FY25.Q3.7 (Yes, this is the information needed for the current sprint card –5077. Please replace the 
information contained in 5077 with the information highlighted)
2 Points 
EPIC: AUDIT BOM & SAP Reconciliation Data Scope 
TITLE: Ingestion Process of BOM Component Data  
Description : 
As a BOM Portal IT Product Owner, I need to fully own and oversee the ingestion process of BOM 
component data into GCP so that all fields required for SAP reconciliation audit reporting are 
consistently available, validated, and mapped for downstream use in analytics and reconciliation 
reporting. 
This includes validating the source data structure, coordinating ingestion with data engineering, and 
ensuring BOM_Portal and SAP datasets are aligned to support 1:1 component -level reconciliation. 
Acceptance Criteria:  
Identify and document all BOM component -related tables required for reconciliation 
Validate that each required field (e.g., material, usage %, scrap %, step reference) is available in 
the source MySQL tables •
Coordinate ingestion into GCP with the data engineering team •
Validate successful ingestion  •
Ensure table availability and access in GCP for analytics/reporting (BigQuery) •
Business Statement/Value: 
Ensures a complete and reliable data pipeline to support the BOM & SAP reconciliation initiative. A fully 
validated ingestion process establishes trust in the data and enables accurate reporting, discrepancy 
detection, and audit traceability for critical business processes such as cost accounting and production 
planning. 
The following 8 points will be done in q4.1:
FY25.Q4.1 
4 Points  
EPIC:  AUDIT –BOM & SAP Reconciliation Data Scope 
TITLE: BOM & SAP Component Reconciliation Data Model in GCP 
Description: 
Develop a GCP -based data model that enables 1:1 comparison between BOM Portal components and 
SAP components for reconciliation. This model must identify and classify discrepancies, specifically 
components that exist in one system but not the other. The model will support core costing and 
production processes by including component -level attributes across resource, operation, input, 
packaging, and secondary material data. 
Acceptance Criteria: 
GCP model aligns BOM Portal and SAP components using standardized keys •
Query flags discrepancies as: 
Exists in BOM only •
Exists in SAP only •
Matches in both ••
Attributes captured in the first iteration of the model include: 
Plant Code •
Recipe Group •
Recipe Group Counter •
BOM Number •
Alt BOM •
BOM Usage •
Primary Material Number •
Primary UoM •
Primary Material Description •
Throughput •
Crewing •
Component Material Number •
Component Description •
Usage Percent •
Scrap Percent •
Formulation Quantity •
Component UoM •
Item Category ••
Business Value / Statement: 
Improves data integrity and trust across costing and production systems by ensuring BOM Portal and 
SAP are synchronized at the component level. Enables accurate analysis of discrepancies and prevents 
production or costing errors caused by incomplete or inconsistent BOM data. 
Technical Details: 
Normalize fields for comparison (e.g., material code, plant, step reference) •
Use left/right/full joins to detect missing entries across systems •
Tag records with flags: only_in_sap, only_in_bom, match •
Output: Unified reconciliation table with all relevant attributes •
Downstream Usage: Power BI reports, audit dashboards, stakeholder review •
FY25.Q4.1 
4 points 
EPIC: AUDIT –BOM & SAP Reconciliation Design Documentation 
TITLE: Design Document: Power BI Integration for BOM & SAP Reconciliation Report 7/1/2025
Tuesday, July 01, 2025 12:06 PM
   What I'm Doing Page 130    
TITLE: Design Document: Power BI Integration for BOM & SAP Reconciliation Report 
Description: 
Create a comprehensive design document outlining the structure, layout, data model, visuals, and logic 
behind the Power BI report used to visualize BOM and SAP reconciliation data from GCP. This document 
will serve as a blueprint for building the report and ensuring alignment across engineering, BI, and 
business stakeholders. It should clearly define all visuals, data sources, field mappings, filters, user 
experience expectations, and security considerations. 
Acceptance Criteria: 
Document includes a summary of the report's purpose, audience, and business goals •
Data source architecture is clearly defined, including GCP BigQuery tables or views used •
Layout mockups for each report page (e.g., Summary, Drilldown, Component Detail) •
Definition of all visuals: •
Summary cards (total, matched, SAP -only, BOM -only) •
Discrepancy charts by plant, material type, or component group •
Component -level tables/matrices with formatting for discrepancy flags •
Slicer/filter logic: Plant, Material, Step, BOM Type, Discrepancy Type •
Drillthrough functionality design for navigating from summary to detail •
Tooltip strategy for enhancing context (e.g., usage %, scrap %, source system) •
Row -Level Security (RLS) design (if applicable) •
Certified dataset plan and refresh strategy •
Sign-off section for business stakeholder review and approval •
Business Value / Statement: 
Establishes a clear, standardized framework for developing the BOM & SAP reconciliation report in 
Power BI. This design document ensures alignment between technical teams and business users before 
development begins, reducing rework and accelerating delivery of a critical visibility tool for Finance, 
Costing, and Manufacturing teams. 
Technical Details: 
Source System: GCP BigQuery (BOM_MySQL and SAP reconciliation model) •
Target Tool: Power BI (Desktop and Service) •
DAX Measures: 
Total Components •
Match Count •
SAP-only / BOM -only Counts •
Discrepancy Rates by Category ••
The following 4 points will be done in the following sprint (q4.2):
FY25.Q4.2
2 point 
EPIC: AUDIT –BOM & SAP Reconciliation Data Scope 
TITLE: Review: Power BI Report for BOM & SAP Reconciliation (Iteration 1) 
Description: 
As the BOM Portal Product Owner, I need to formally review the first iteration of the Power BI report 
developed by Ayesha, based on the previously approved design document. This includes validating 
visuals, data accuracy, filter behavior, and overall usability. Feedback will be consolidated and shared 
with the BI team prior to final approval and dashboard certification. 
Acceptance Criteria: 
Confirm report reflects the logic defined in the approved design document •
Confirm correct use of visuals: •
Summary cards (e.g., total components, matched, SAP -only, BOM -only) •
Bar/column charts grouped by plant, material type, discrepancy type •
Matrix with conditional formatting for discrepancy flags •
Test and verify slicers (Plant, Material, BOM Type, Step, Discrepancy Type) •
Review drillthrough functionality to ensure smooth navigation to component detail •
Validate tooltips provide helpful context (e.g., usage %, source, scrap %) •
Confirm refresh schedule and certified dataset configuration •
Business Value / Statement: 
Ensures the Power BI report aligns with business needs and technical expectations, allowing Finance, 
Ops, and Costing teams to trust and act on the insights. Thorough review avoids rework and ensures 
report reliability before broader stakeholder rollout. 
Technical Details: 
Report Developer: Ayesha •
Data Source: GCP BigQuery reconciliation model (SAP + BOM_Portal) •
Target Tool: Power BI Desktop + Service •
Report Iteration: v1 based on Q4.1 design document •
Review Due: Tuesday before 12 PM (July 1st) •
Location: Power BI Workspace [insert workspace name] •
Additional Notes: •
Review documented in status report for June 23 –27 •
Follows successful ingestion validation and initial SQL logic completion •
Dependencies: Finalized ingestion of BOM tables, SAP backfill reconciliation •
FY25.Q4.2
2 points  
EPIC: BOM Foundation UX/UI 
TITLE: Update Functional Spec Document for UX/UI -General  
Description: 
As an IT Product Owner, I need to coordinate with the UI/UX and development teams and write the 
functional specification document so that all new components and functional information is 
documented. 
Acceptance Criteria:  
Identify and document all new UI/UX components introduced: 
List all new components added  •
Include screenshots or wireframes of the new components. •
Include detailed functional information, user interactions, and design specifications: ••
Describe the purpose and functionality of each component. 
Detail user interactions (e.g., button clicks, form submissions). •
Provide design specifications from Figma(e.g., dimensions, color schemes, fonts).  ••
   What I'm Doing Page 131    
Provide design specifications from Figma(e.g., dimensions, color schemes, fonts).  •
Business Value/ Statement: 
This document ensures a shared understanding between design, development, and business teams. By 
maintaining detailed, up -to-date specifications, the team reduces development errors, increases 
efficiency during implementation, and ensures the final UI matches business requirements and design 
standards. It supports scalable development and better onboarding for new team members.  
Technical Details: 
Design Source: Figma (with links to specific screens and components) •
SharePoint for document management •
Document Scope: Covers all components added during the current and previous sprints •
   What I'm Doing Page 132    
Status Report (July 7th –July 11th) 
Validated the reconciliation logic to pull Throughput and Crewing from SAP (PI05) and 
BOM_MySQL after identifying an issue with the composite key join on Plant, Material, and 
Version—specifically, how BOM Version was being joined.•
Identified a sync issue where the web app displays correct values, but the BOM_MySQL database 
is out of sync for Throughput and Crewing. •
Currently validating Ayesha’s card for data modeling in the new BI reconciliation report. •
Key Accomplishments (July 7th-11th)
Finalized reconciliation logic to extract Throughput and Crewing from SAP (PI05) and 
BOM_MySQL. •
Initiated conversations around implementing discontinuation logic at the BOM level instead of the 
material level in SAP, and evaluating feasibility in BOM Portal. •
Started initial validation of data model requirements for the Power BI reconciliation report. •
Upcoming Activities (July 14th –July 18th) 
Continue validating component -level information, gradually expanding the report with new 
iterations. •
Review all recent UX/UI findings and update the spec documentation accordingly. •
Work with Ayesha to build out a Power BI design document for the reconciliation report. •Ayesha's Card
Title: Power BI Design for Component Level Reconciliation
Description:
As a BOM Portal Data Engineer, I will set up initial visuals using the current reconciliation query 
once the design document is handed off. This task focuses on the addition of throughput and 
crewing.•
Acceptance Criteria:
Create Power BI visuals that accurately represent Throughput and Crewing mismatches.•
Include metrics for throughput and crewing.•
Ensure the visuals are clear, concise, and easy to interpret.•
Technical Details:
Utilize the current reconciliation query to extract data for throughput and crewing.•
Design and implement Power BI visuals based on the provided design document.•
Ensure that the visuals align with the design document specifications.•
Focus solely on throughput and crewing metrics for this iteration in addition to what's in the 
current report. •7/8/25
Tuesday, July 08, 2025 10:08 AM
   What I'm Doing Page 133    
Status Report (July 14th-18th) 
Finalized Design Documentation for PowerBI Component -Level Reconciliation Report Iteration 1 –
Throughput and Crewing •
Met with Ayesha to discuss design changes for PowerBI Report•
Found that BOM Portal Web App is not in Sync with BOM Portal My_SQL for throughput and 
Crewing, Further analysis will be needed to determine best route to continue reconciliation 
report. •
Met with Rich O'Connor and Christopher Horn around discontinuation at a bom -level instead of at 
a material level. •
Key Accomplishments (July 14th-18th )
Validated that all necessary information is in the PowerBI Report with the proper layout. •
Confirmed alignment on the web app but identifying database desynchronization for Throughput 
and Crewing. •
Met with Kay and Andre to discuss UX/UI handling of APB/Phantoms•
Upcoming Activities (July 21st –July 25th) 
Move the first iteration of the PowerBI Component Level Reconciliation Report to production•
Meet with business to discuss pain points and possible enhancements to Component report once 
published. •
Continue adding to the component level reconciliation report with more granularity•
Analyze how throughput and crewing and other fields are populated on the web app. •
Self Evaluations coming up!!Greg Homstad Jira Cards 
Greg's Cards FY25 Q4.3 (July 23rd-August 5th)
Points 6: Title : BOM Structure Reconciliation for Recipe -Component
Description:
As the IT Product Owner for the BOM Portal, I will expand the reconciliation report (Iteration 2) by 
adding three new pages focused on:
Component Material Number•
Usage %•
Unit of Measure (UoM)•
Quantity•
This will provide enhanced granularity and visibility into component -level discrepancies between SAP 
and BOM Portal. I will continue collaborating with Ayesha to model and visualize this data accurately in 
Power BI.
Acceptance Criteria:
Conduct meeting(s) with business stakeholders to:•
Validate required level of granularity•
Identify unresolved pain points in the current iteration•
Update the design document to reflect:•
Newly scoped pages•
Data fields to be included•
Any business rules or logic transformations needed for comparison•
Align with Ayesha on Power BI layout and card -level metrics for new pages •
Ensure filters and drill -through functionality remain consistent across all iterations/pages •
Points 2: Title: Update BOM Portal Reconciliation Report Design Documentation
Description:
As the IT Product Owner for BOM Portal, I want to add to the current design documentation to expand 
the reconciliation report by adding new pages for:
Component Material Number•
Usage %•
Unit of Measure•
Quantity•
Acceptance Criteria:
Document includes a summary of the report's purpose, audience, and business goals  •
Data source architecture is clearly defined, including GCP BigQuery tables or views used  •
Layout mockups for each report page (e.g., Summary, Drilldown, Component Detail)  •
Definition of all visuals:  •
Summary cards (total, matched, SAP -only, BOM -only)  •
Discrepancy charts by plant, material type, or component group  •
Component -level tables/matrices with formatting for discrepancy flags  •
Slicer/filter logic: Plant, Material, Step, BOM Type, Discrepancy Type  •
Drillthrough functionality design for navigating from summary to detail  •
Tooltip strategy for enhancing context (e.g., usage %, scrap %, source system)  •
Row -Level Security (RLS) design (if applicable)  •
Certified dataset plan and refresh strategy  •
Sign-off section for business stakeholder review and approval  •Ayesha's Cards FY25 Q4.3 (July 23rd-August 5th)
Points: 4: Title: Power BI Design for Component Level Reconciliation
Description:
As a BOM Portal Data Engineer, I will continue to setup visuals using the new reconciliation query once the 
design document is handed off. This task focuses on the addition of component material numbers, usage, 
unit of measure, quantity. 
Acceptance Criteria:
Create new pages in the current PowerBI report to include component material number, usage, unit of 
measure and quantity mismatches. •
Include a new page for each level of granularity•
Ensure the visuals are clear, concise, and easy to interpret. •
Technical Details: 
Utilize the current reconciliation query to extract data for component material numbers, usage, unit of 
measure, and quantity mismatches.  •
Design and implement Power BI visuals based on the provided design document. •
Ensure that the visuals align with the design document specifications. •
Focus solely on the addition of further granularity for this iteration in addition to what's in the current 
report.  •I wanted to let you know I got in at 7:00 AM today, but unfortunately didn’t get much sleep last night. I 
was able to push through the morning, but after lunch, I’ve noticed a real drop in my focus and 
productivity.
Would it be okay if I went home to rest for a bit and then picked back up this evening to finish off the 
last few hours? I’ll make sure to stay on top of any priorities and be available as needed later. I just 
pushed two of my cards into validate
Ayesha to updata PowerBI per Andre's requests. 
Design documentation in validate
Reconciliation report in validate7/15/25
Tuesday, July 15, 2025 9:06 AM
   What I'm Doing Page 134    
I wanted to raise a concern regarding the current sprint pacing. I’ve found it challenging to deliver 
high -quality work within a 40 -hour work week at the speed we’re currently moving. It’s been feeling 
more like output over outcomes, and I worry that this is impacting the integrity of the deliverables.
Specifically, with the throughput and crewing implementation, I committed based on the 
assumption that the Power BI integration was part of this sprint's scope. If that assumption changed, 
I think it would’ve been helpful to clarify that earlier —ideally before deep diving into validation 
logic.
Additionally, I’d like to propose that any new tasks or scope adjustments be added as enhancement 
cards for the following sprint. That would allow us to better manage capacity and avoid shifting 
scope mid -sprint, which can push other deliverables out unnecessarily.
I’m fully on board with refining and improving work, but I believe we’ll get better results if we do it 
iteratively and adjust in a more structured way rather than rushing to complete right before. Check -
Ins would be helpful specifically from who will be validating the cards so I know I'm going in the right 
direction. 
Andre found an error while validating cards and found that corresponding recipe (group), it 
is then confirmed that the reporting results for this recipe are incorrect.
Throughput and Crewing alignment between both systems . Notice that the last 
PRODUCTION_SEND_DATE is respective to the most recent entry in SAP for the 
corresponding recipe (group), it is then confirmed that the reporting results for this recipe 
are incorrect. Currently I think the query goes off the creation date.
Problem with create date logic use for most recent material. 
PLPO Andre spoke with rohi about discrepancies between web app and database. Concerns
Tuesday, July 22, 2025 2:29 PM
   What I'm Doing Page 135    
AUDIT –BOM & SAP Reconciliation Data Scope
Add
Apps
Description
Add a description...
Acceptance Criteria
Acceptance Criteria:   
Confirm report reflects the logic defined in the approved design document  •
Confirm correct use of visuals:  •
Summary cards (e.g., total components, matched, SAP -only, BOM -only)  •
Bar/column charts grouped by plant, material type, discrepancy type  •
Matrix with conditional formatting for discrepancy flags  •
Test and verify slicers (Plant, Material, BOM Type, Step, Discrepancy Type)  •
Review drillthrough functionality to ensure smooth navigation to component detail  •
Validate tooltips provide helpful context (e.g., usage %, source, scrap %)  •
Confirm refresh schedule and certified dataset configuration  •AUDIT –BOM & SAP Reconciliation Design Documentation
Add
Apps
Description
Add a description...
Acceptance Criteria
Acceptance Criteria:   
Document includes a summary of the report's purpose, audience, and business goals  •
Data source architecture is clearly defined, including GCP BigQuery tables or views used  •
Layout mockups for each report page (e.g., Summary, Drilldown, Component Detail)  •
Definition of all visuals:  •
Summary cards (total, matched, SAP -only, BOM -only)  •
Discrepancy charts by plant, material type, or component group  •
Component -level tables/matrices with formatting for discrepancy flags  •
Slicer/filter logic: Plant, Material, Step, BOM Type, Discrepancy Type  •
Drillthrough functionality design for navigating from summary to detail  •
Tooltip strategy for enhancing context (e.g., usage %, scrap %, source system)  •
Certified dataset plan and refresh strategy  •
Sign-off section for business stakeholder review and approval  •Greg's Task Plan (July 23rd-August 5th)
1. Refactor Throughput & Crewing Query
Update SQL logic to incorporate datuv (Valid From Date) and zaehl (Counter) for accurate 
routing/operation selection.•
Ensure latest valid record per routing group is used.•
2. Update Power BI Report
Replace existing query with the updated logic.•
Refresh dataset and validate the new selection method•
3. Validate Updated Report
Cross -check results against:•
SAP C203 (throughput & crewing values)•
BOM Portal Web App•
BOM_MySQL databas e •
Document findings and note discrepancies.•
4. Handover to Andre
Provide updated Power BI link, logic change summary, and validation results for review/sign -off. •
5. Enhance Component Material Reconciliation
Modify query to focus only on component material matches/mismatches •
6. Update Design Documentation
Add details on:•
New query selection logic and acceptance criteria.•
Report purpose, business objectives, and audience.•
All other design requirements outlined in acceptance Criteria•
7. Handover Design Docs to Ayesha
Deliver updated documentation for dashboard enhancements.•
Schedule walkthrough session if needed.•
Next Steps:
I’ll start with query refactor today •
Andre, expect the updated Power BI report after validation for your sign -off. •7/23/25
Wednesday, July 23, 2025 11:46 AM
   What I'm Doing Page 136    
Status Report Update (28th July –1st Aug) .
Verified field mapping for Throughput (BMSCH) and Crewing (VGW03) against C203 transaction using 
most recent production send date as well as creation date.•
Assisted Kay in initial review and testing session for UX/UI -BOM Templates •
Met with Joceline to recap:
Hashi Vault for current endpoint configurations and retrieval of secrets •
Splunk for system monitoring. •
Insomnia features and functionality overview•
Gitlab repo ••
Coordinated with Ayesha on Power BI model alignment for the reconciliation dashboard.•
Consolidated functional spec documentation into one document •
Key Accomplishments (28th July –1st Aug) •
Validated Query logic for throughput and crewing as part of the reconciliation report •
Generated design documentation for PowerBI new page and features•
Consolidated functional spec documentation into one document•
Upcoming Activities (4th Aug –8th Aug) •
Validate SQL query for component -level mismatches between BOM Portal and SAP via GCP7/29/25
Tuesday, July 29, 2025 8:35 AM
   What I'm Doing Page 137    
Validate SQL query for component -level mismatches between BOM Portal and SAP via GCP •
Schedule and lead stakeholder alignment session for the reconciliation report•
Begin drafting verbose functional specification for BOM Portal Phase 3 enhancements, incorporating UX 
design elements and workflow improvements.•
Assist with Power BI dashboard integration for reconciliation report.•
Continue assisting Kay in BOM Templates Review and testing•
   What I'm Doing Page 138    
Dependent on 5146
Design
Ayesha –PowerBI modeling if 5146 done, scaffolding if not done for new page for 
component material reconciliation
Ayesha –any design change needed for throughput and crewing
Greg –Functional Spec documentation for SpecRight
Story refinement interaction between developers explain what and why theyre 
doing, keeps understanding throughout the team. Standup meeting is high level, 
developer alignment meeting will be separate granular level. 
Andre had meeting with the business for functional requirements, they've spent 
hours over the past few days working on data facts. Running stories is complex and diverse, 
limitations from our side, opportunity to grow 
for me to decide without getting too verbose
Andre wants to see sprint planning –
development engineer team must be 100% 
aware of everyones tasks and what everyone is 
doing, everyones on same page with what 
currently being done. Andre will be giving 
reviews on jocelyn's sprints, touchbase with me 
to define how we tackle it later, Andre will 
rpepare stories for me, ayesha
8/4/2025
Greg -
AUDIT –BOM & SAP Component Material Reconciliation
Description
As a BOM Portal IT Product Owner I will create a query that allows us to see discrepancies between 
component materials that are either not on bom or not on sap. This task focuses on the addition of 
component material numbers to the report. I will work with Phuong, to work on query logic.
Acceptance Criteria
Confirm component materials showing Not on SAP are not present in SAP •
Confirm component materials showing Not on BOM Portal are not present in BOM Portal•
Confirm query logic outputs only where header materials match and component materials 
mismatch based on composite key to reduce noise. •
UX/UI–BOM Forge Functional Specification Update
Description
As a BOM Portal IT Product Owner, I will update the functional specification for BOM Forge. This task focuses 
on any addition to the functional spec that is in ready for dev status in figma. I will coordinate with Kay for 
any questions related to design
Acceptance Criteria
Identify and document all new UI/UX components introduced:  
List all new components added   ○
Include screenshots or wireframes of the new components.  ○
Include detailed functional information, user interactions, and design specifications:  ○
Describe the purpose and functionality of each component.  ○
Detail user interactions (e.g., button clicks, form submissions).  ○•
Provide design specifications from Figma(e.g., dimensions, color schemes, fonts). •I am going to give ayesha what I have so she can design in PowerBI,
The query Logic is still not working, but this will make it so that she is still contributing and then when 
me and phuong figure out the query logic I will be responsible for updating the PowerBI and publishing it 
to the web app
Confirm report reflects the logic defined in the approved design document  •
Confirm correct use of visuals:  •
Summary cards (e.g., total components, matched, SAP -only, BOM -only)  •
Bar/column charts grouped by plant, material type, discrepancy type  •
Matrix with conditional formatting for discrepancy flags  •
Test and verify slicers (Plant, Material, BOM Type, Step, Discrepancy Type)  •
Review drillthrough functionality to ensure smooth navigation to component detail  •
Validate tooltips provide helpful context (e.g., usage %, source, scrap %)  •
Confirm refresh schedule and certified dataset configuration  •8/1/20205
Friday, August 01, 2025 8:08 AM
   What I'm Doing Page 139    
Update Current card 5146 to reflect that it is a draft 
2 Points -AUDIT –SAP Component Data Query
Description
As a BOM Portal IT Product Owner, I will refine the existing SAP component data query to include 
only the fields and logic necessary for reconciliation purposes. This ensures we eliminate 
unnecessary columns, optimize performance, and focus exclusively on component -level data 
needed for validation between BOM Portal and SAP. I will collaborate with Phuong to finalize the 
query logic and ensure SAP remains the master source of truth.
Acceptance Criteria
Query retrieves component materials from SAP accurately based on the defined reconciliation 
requirements.•
Component data correctly joins across the following SAP tables:•
MAST (Material to BOM Assignment)•
STKO (BOM Header)•
STAS (BOM Sub -item Assignment) •
STPO (BOM Item Components)•
Validate with Phuong that logic reflects SAP standards and adheres to best practices for 
reconciliation.•
Technical Details
Normalize material and component numbers for consistent matching to SAP •
Ensure composite key fields included:
Plant (MAST.WERKS)○
Header Material ( MAST.MATNR ) ○
Component Material ( STPO.IDNRK ) ○
BOM Alternative ( STKO.STLAL ) ○•
3 Points -AUDIT –BOM & SAP Component Material Reconciliation
Description
As a BOM Portal IT Product Owner, I will develop a query that reconciles component -level materials 
between BOM Portal and SAP, identifying mismatches. The goal is to flag discrepancies where a 
component exists in one system but not the other, under a matched header context. This query will also 
explicitly handle cases where component material numbers differ while headers match, using a 
composite key for precision.
Acceptance Criteria
Discrepancy report includes:•
"Not on SAP" when a component is present in BOM Portal but missing in SAP. •
"Not on BOM Portal" when a component is present in SAP but missing in BOM Portal. •
Logic ensures headers match first before identifying component -level mismatches to minimize 
noise.•
Query uses composite key (Plant + Header Material + BOM Version + BOM Type + Step Code) for 
accurate reconciliation.•
Validated with Phuong for SAP accuracy and business logic alignment.•
Technical Details8/4/2025
Monday, August 04, 2025 1:07 PM
   What I'm Doing Page 140    
Input data sources:•
BOM Portal: recipe_current , recipe_component , plant , material •
SAP: MAST , STKO , STAS , STPO •
Normalize all identifiers (remove leading zeros, standardize case).•
Use Except Distinct in BigQuery between SAP and BOM Portal components on composite key.•
Output fields:
PLANT○
HEADER_MATERIAL○
BOM_VERSION○
COMPONENT_MATERIAL_BOM○
COMPONENT_MATERIAL_SAP○•
Discrepancy Indicator: "Not on SAP" / "Not on BOM Portal"•
Exclude any fields that are not required in reconciliation•
2 Points -UX/UI –BOM Forge Design Specification Update
Description
As a BOM Portal IT Product Owner, I will update the Design Specification Document for BOM Forge to 
reflect any UI/UX enhancements that have reached "Ready for Development" status in Figma. This 
ensures that development teams have an authoritative reference for new design elements and 
interactions. I will collaborate with Kay for any clarifications on design intent and specifications.
Acceptance Criteria
All new UI/UX components from Figma are documented in the functional specification.•
Each component entry includes:•
Component name and purpose.•
Screenshots or wireframes (annotated if necessary).•
Design specifications (color palette, fonts, dimensions). •
Functional details for each component:•
Expected behavior (e.g., state changes, hover effects).•
User interactions (clicks, submissions, validations).•
Document formatted consistently and linked to corresponding Figma frames for traceability.•
Technical Details
Source designs from figma latest approved version.•
Update the BOM Forge Design Spec in SharePoint•
2 Points –AUDIT –PowerBI Query Logic update
Description
As a BOM Portal IT Product Owner, I will update the PowerBI report so that the newly introduced logic 
is implemented. 
Acceptance Criteria
PowerBI data query updated •
Query matches specifications in design document•
Technical Details
Update fields for reconciliation using new query logic. •
   What I'm Doing Page 141    
Status Report Update  (4th Aug -8th Aug):
Met with Phuong to review current query logic for BOM vs SAP with best practices○
Wrapped up user sessions with Kay over BOM template updates○•
Key Accomplishments   (4th Aug -8th Aug):
Conducted review session with Phuong to analyze existing query○
Clarified reconciliation approach: SAP as master data, normalization on BOM Portal side○
Finalized decision to use EXCEPT DISTINCT for mismatch detection to keep query lean○
Documented feedback for refinement of PowerBI design guidelines○•
Upcoming Activities (11th Aug -15th Aug): What are your upcoming tasks? 
Update component -level reconciliation query based on Phuongs feedback ○
Continue updating and refining future sprint cards at the start of the sprint○
Validate query outputs for reconciliation and update PowerBI○•Status Report Update (4th Aug –8th Aug)
Met with Phuong to review current query logic for BOM vs SAP reconciliation and validate alignment 
with best practices.
Key Accomplishments (4th Aug –8th Aug)
Conducted review session with Phuong to analyze existing query logic.•
Clarified reconciliation approach: SAP as master data, normalization on BOM Portal side.•
Finalized decision to use EXCEPT DISTINCT for mismatch detection to keep the query lean. •
Documented feedback for refinement and Power BI integration guidelines.•
Upcoming Activities (11th Aug –15th Aug)
Update component -level reconciliation query based on Phuong’s feedback (SAP tables: MAST, STKO, 
STAS, STPO).•
Add logic for BOM header matching using composite keys (Plant + Material + BOM Alt).•
Prepare detailed description, acceptance criteria, and technical details for JIRA tasks related to 
reconciliation.•
Start draft of UX/UI design specification for discrepancy reporting in Power BI.•
Validate query outputs in BigQuery and share results with team for QA.•Card 1: AUDIT –SAP Component Material Data Query
Summary: Refine SAP Component Data Query for Reconciliation
Description: As a BOM Portal IT Product Owner, I will refine the existing SAP component data query for the 
BOM Portal Reconciliation Report to include only the fields and logic necessary for reconciliation purposes. 
This ensures we eliminate unnecessary columns, optimize performance, and focus exclusively on component -
level data needed for validation between BOM Portal and SAP. I will collaborate with Phuong to finalize the 
query logic and ensure SAP remains the master source of truth.
Acceptance Criteria:
Query retrieves component materials from SAP accurately based on the defined reconciliation 
requirements.•
Component data correctly joins across the following SAP tables: 
MAST (Material to BOM Assignment)•
STKO (BOM Header)•
STAS (BOM Sub -item Assignment) •
STPO (BOM Item Components)••
Validate with Phuong that logic reflects SAP standards and adheres to best practices for reconciliation.•
Technical Details:
Normalize material and component numbers for consistent matching to SAP.•
Ensure composite key fields included: 
Plant (MAST.WERKS)•
Header Material (MAST.MATNR)•
Component Material (STPO.IDNRK)•
BOM Alternative (STKO.STLAL)••
Ensure SAP data is being pulled correctly •
Phuong is to validate proposed Query•
Card 2: AUDIT –BOM & SAP Component Material Reconciliation
Summary: Develop Query for BOM & SAP Component Material Reconciliation
Description: As a BOM Portal IT Product Owner, I will develop a query that reconciles component -level 
materials between BOM Portal and SAP, identifying mismatches. The goal is to flag discrepancies where a 
component exists in one system but not the other, under a matched header context. This query will also 
explicitly handle cases where component material numbers differ while headers match, using a composite 
key for precision.
Acceptance Criteria:Tuesday, August 05, 2025 1:25 PM
   What I'm Doing Page 142    
Acceptance Criteria:
Discrepancy report includes: 
"Not on SAP" when a component is present in BOM Portal but missing in SAP.•
"Not on BOM Portal" when a component is present in SAP but missing in BOM Portal.••
Logic ensures headers match first before identifying component -level mismatches to minimize noise. •
Query uses composite key (Plant + Header Material + BOM Version + BOM Type + Step Code) for 
accurate reconciliation.•
Validated with Phuong for SAP accuracy and business logic alignment.•
Technical Details:
Use Google BigQuery for query testing•
Input data sources: 
BOM Portal: recipe_current, recipe_component, plant, material•
SAP: MAST, STKO, STAS, STPO••
Normalize all identifiers (remove leading zeros, standardize case).•
Use Except Distinct in BigQuery between SAP and BOM Portal components on composite key.•
Output fields: 
PLANT•
HEADER_MATERIAL•
BOM_VERSION•
COMPONENT_MATERIAL_BOM•
COMPONENT_MATERIAL_SAP•
Discrepancy Indicator: "Not on SAP" / "Not on BOM Portal"••
Exclude any fields that are not required in reconciliation.•
Card 3: UX/UI –BOM Forge Design Specification Update
Summary: Update BOM Forge Design Specification Document
Description: As a BOM Portal IT Product Owner, I will update the Design Specification Document for BOM 
Forge to reflect any UI/UX enhancements that have reached "Ready for Development" status in Figma. This 
ensures that development teams have an authoritative reference for new design elements and interactions. I 
will collaborate with Kay for any clarifications on design intent and specifications.
Acceptance Criteria:
All new UI/UX components from Figma are documented in the functional specification.•
Each component entry includes: 
Component name and purpose.•
Screenshots or wireframes (annotated if necessary).•
Design specifications (color palette, fonts, dimensions).•
Functional details for each component: 
Expected behavior (e.g., state changes, hover effects).•
User interactions (clicks, submissions, validations).•••
Document formatted consistently and linked to corresponding Figma frames for traceability.•
Technical Details:
Source designs from Figma latest approved version.•Card 1: AUDIT –SAP Component Material Data Query (2 pts)
User Story:
As a BOM Portal IT Product Owner, I want to refine the SAP component data query so that reconciliation 
between SAP and BOM Portal includes only relevant component -level data.
Acceptance Criteria:
SAP query retrieves accurate component materials.•
Joins include: MAST, STKO, STAS, STPO.•
Material/component numbers normalized.•
Includes composite key: Plant, Header Material, BOM Alt, Component Material.•
Reviewed and validated by Phuong.•
Card 2: AUDIT –BOM & SAP Component Material Reconciliation (3 pts)
User Story:
As a BOM Portal IT Product Owner, I want to identify component mismatches between BOM Portal and 
SAP so that each BOM authority can accurately view discrepancies in component material objects.
Acceptance Criteria:
Shows “ ot on SAP” / “ ot on BOM Portal”.•
Matches headers before comparing components.•
Uses composite key: Plant + Header Material + BOM Version + BOM Type + Step Code.•
Validated by Phuong.•
Card 3: UX/UI –BOM Forge Design Specification Update (2 pts)
User Story:
As a BOM Portal IT Product Owner, I want to update the BOM Forge design specification so that 
developers have a complete and accurate reference to implement UI enhancements.
Acceptance Criteria:
Document updated with all “Ready for Development”  igma components.•
Includes: name, purpose, specs, visuals, expected behavior, and user interactions.•
Format consistent and linked to Figma frames.•
Stored in SharePoint.•
Card 4: AUDIT –Power BI Query Logic Update (1 pt)
User Story:
As a BOM Portal IT Product Owner, I want to update the Power BI query logic so that the reconciliation 
report reflects the most accurate and minimal component data based on SAP validation.
Acceptance Criteria:
Power BI query logic updated per Phuong’s guidance.•
Matches design specifications.•
Validated in testing and deployed to report.•
Card 5: Power BI Visual Design for Component Reconciliation (4 pts)
User Story:
As a BOM Portal Data Analyst, I want to design Power BI visuals using the updated reconciliation query 
so that each BOM authority can view component -level mismatches with added granularity.
Acceptance Criteria:
New visuals added using latest query.•
Granularity includes component material mismatches.•
Visuals are clear, match design spec, and are easy to interpret.•
✅Final Thoughts
Total Points: Confirm with Jerry that 2+3+2+1+4 = 12 •
Andre’s Feedback Addressed: Yes •
“As a... I want to... so that...” structure used•
Role clarity emphasized (replaced “Data Engineer”)•
Component material phrasing aligned: “component material objects”•
Dependencies (Optional Additions for Jira):•
Cards 2, 4, and 5 depend on Card 1•
Card 5 depends on Card 3•
Let me know if you'd like me to bundle these up in Jira -ready copy blocks or paste into a SharePoint file!
You said:
write out full cards with points specify my work vs ayesha
ChatGPT said:
Here are the final, refined Agile story cards formatted clearly with point values, responsibilities by 
person (you vs. Ayesha), and ready for Jira . These align with Andre and  ern’s guidance on syntax, 
content clarity, and role ownership.
 Card 1: AUDIT –SAP Component Material Data Query
Points: 2
Owner: Greg Homstad
User Story:
As a BOM Portal IT Product Owner, I want to refine the SAP component data query so that reconciliation 
between SAP and BOM Portal includes only relevant component -level data.
   What I'm Doing Page 143    
Technical Details:
Source designs from Figma latest approved version.•
Collaborate with Kay and Andre to source any clarifications•
Update the BOM Forge Design Spec in SharePoint and link to the comments of this card. •
Card 4: AUDIT –PowerBI Query Logic update
Summary: Update PowerBI Query Logic for Reconciliation
Description: As a BOM Portal IT Product Owner, I will update the PowerBI report so that the newly 
introduced logic is implemented.
Acceptance Criteria:
PowerBI data query is updated matching phuongs suggestions •
Query matches specifications in design document.•
PowerBI Report is pushed after testing validation •
Technical Details:
Update fields for reconciliation using new query logic to only include fields needed for accurate 
reconciliation.•
Use BigQuery's Except Distinct operator for reconciliation between SAP and BOM Portal.•
Card 5: Power BI Design Draft for Component Level Reconciliation
Summary: Draft Power BI Visuals for Component Level Reconciliation
Description: As a BOM Portal Data Engineer, I will continue to draft visuals using the new reconciliation query 
once the design document is handed off. This task focuses on the addition of component material numbers.
Acceptance Criteria:
Edit the  page in the current PowerBI report to include new component query as data source•
Ensure the visuals are clear, concise, and easy to interpret per the design document for the Component 
Level Reconciliation•
Technical Details:
Design and draft Power BI visuals based on the provided design document.•
Ensure that the visuals align with the design document specifications.•
Focus solely on the addition of further granularity for this iteration in addition to what's in the current 
report.•Points: 2
Owner: Greg Homstad
User Story:
As a BOM Portal IT Product Owner, I want to refine the SAP component data query so that reconciliation 
between SAP and BOM Portal includes only relevant component -level data.
Acceptance Criteria:
Query retrieves component materials from SAP based on reconciliation requirements.•
Component data joins across:•
MAST (Material to BOM Assignment)•
STKO (BOM Header)•
STAS (BOM Sub -item Assignment) •
STPO (BOM Item Components)•
Composite key includes:•
Plant (MAST.WERKS ) •
Header Material ( MAST.MATNR ) •
BOM Alternative ( STKO.STLAL ) •
Component Material ( STPO.IDNRK ) •
All material and component numbers normalized.•
Query reviewed and validated by Phuong.•
Technical Details:
Remove leading zeros, standardize case formatting.•
Use only necessary fields for reconciliation performance.•
Query optimized for BigQuery.•
 Card 2: AUDIT –BOM & SAP Component Material Reconciliation
Points: 3
Owner: Greg Homstad
User Story:
As a BOM Portal IT Product Owner, I want to identify mismatches between component materials in SAP 
and BOM Portal so that each BOM authority can accurately view discrepancies in component material 
objects.
Acceptance Criteria:
Report includes:•
"Not on SAP" (component in BOM Portal only)•
"Not on BOM Portal" (component in SAP only)•
Header match required before flagging component -level discrepancies. •
Composite key: Plant + Header Material + BOM Version + BOM Type + Step Code.•
Query validated by Phuong.•
Technical Details:
Data Sources:•
BOM Portal: recipe_current , recipe_component , material , plant •
SAP: MAST , STKO , STAS , STPO •
Normalize identifiers (remove leading zeros, consistent case).•
Use EXCEPT DISTINCT in BigQuery to compare SAP vs. BOM Portal components. •
Output includes:•
PLANT•
HEADER_MATERIAL•
BOM_VERSION•
COMPONENT_MATERIAL_BOM•
COMPONENT_MATERIAL_SAP•
Discrepancy Indicator: “ ot on SAP” / “ ot on BOM Portal”•
 Card 3: UX/UI –BOM Forge Design Specification Update
Points: 2
Owner: Greg Homstad
User Story:
As a BOM Portal IT Product Owner, I want to update the BOM Forge design specification so that 
developers have a complete and accurate reference to implement UI enhancements.
Acceptance Criteria:
All UI/UX components marked “Ready for Development” in  igma are included.•
Each component entry includes:•
Name & purpose•
Screenshots/wireframes•
Design specs (color, font, dimensions)•
Functional behavior (state changes, interactions)•
Document formatted consistently and linked to Figma frames.•
Technical Details:
Source from latest approved version in Figma.•
Collaborate with Kay and Andre for clarification where needed.•
Upload to SharePoint and link in Jira card comments.•
 Card 4: AUDIT –Power BI Query Logic Update
Points: 1
Owner: Greg Homstad
User Story:
As a BOM Portal IT Product Owner, I want to update the Power BI query logic so that the reconciliation 
report reflects accurate SAP -vs-BOM component data.
Acceptance Criteria:
Query logic in Power BI report is updated based on Phuong’s approved changes.•
Power BI report matches new design document.•
Report passes internal validation and is republished.•
Technical Details:
Strip report to reconciliation -only fields. •
Use EXCEPT DISTINCT logic for mismatch detection. •
Minimize column usage to reduce cost and improve clarity.•
 Card 5: Power BI Design Draft for Component Level Reconciliation
Points: 4
Owner: Ayesha (Power BI Developer)
User Story:
As a BOM Portal Power BI Developer, I want to design visuals using the new reconciliation query so that 
each BOM authority can accurately view mismatches in component material objects.
Acceptance Criteria:
Add or edit report page using component -level reconciliation query as the data source. •
Visuals clearly show mismatches by plant, header material, and component material.•
Layout aligns with design document and stakeholder expectations.•
Report reflects new granularity while keeping visuals clean and digestible.•
Technical Details:
Visuals sourced from updated design document maintained by Product Owner.•
Visuals must match naming, font, color, and layout guidance.•1. AUDIT –SAP Component Material Data Query
Points: 2
Owner: Greg Homstad
As a BOM Portal IT Product Owner, I want to refine the SAP component data query so that reconciliation 
between SAP and BOM Portal includes only relevant component -level data.
Acceptance Criteria:
Query retrieves component materials from SAP based on reconciliation requirements.•
Joins include MAST, STKO, STAS, STPO.•
Composite key includes: Plant, Header Material, Component Material, BOM Alt.•
Material/component numbers normalized.•
Validated with Phuong.•
Technical Details:
Remove leading zeros and standardize formatting.•
Focus only on fields needed for accurate reconciliation.•
Optimized for performance in BigQuery. •
2. AUDIT –BOM & SAP Component Material Reconciliation
Points: 3
Owner: Greg Homstad
As a BOM Portal IT Product Owner, I want to identify mismatches between component materials in SAP 
and BOM Portal so that each BOM authority can accurately view discrepancies in component material 
objects.
Acceptance Criteria:
 lags “ ot on SAP” and “ ot on BOM Portal” accurately.•
Logic ensures headers match before checking component mismatches.•
Composite key: Plant + Header Material + BOM Version + BOM Type + Step Code.•
Validated with Phuong.•
Technical Details:
Normalize all identifiers on BOM portal Side •
Use EXCEPT DISTINCT for comparison. •
Output fields:•
PLANT•
HEADER_MATERIAL•
BOM_VERSION•
COMPONENT_MATERIAL_BOM•
COMPONENT_MATERIAL_SAP•
Discrepancy Indicator: "Not on SAP" / "Not on BOM Portal"•
3. UX/UI –BOM Forge Design Specification Update
Points: 2
Owner: Greg Homstad
As a BOM Portal IT Product Owner, I want to update the BOM Forge design specification so that 
developers have a complete and accurate reference to implement UI enhancements.
Acceptance Criteria:
   What I'm Doing Page 144    
Visuals clearly show mismatches by plant, header material, and component material.•
Layout aligns with design document and stakeholder expectations.•
Report reflects new granularity while keeping visuals clean and digestible.•
Technical Details:
Visuals sourced from updated design document maintained by Product Owner.•
Visuals must match naming, font, color, and layout guidance.•
Include tooltips, filters, and layout navigation if specified.•Owner: Greg Homstad
As a BOM Portal IT Product Owner, I want to update the BOM Forge design specification so that 
developers have a complete and accurate reference to implement UI enhancements.
Acceptance Criteria:
All new  igma “Ready for Dev” components are included. •
Includes name, purpose, screenshots, visual specs, behaviors, and Figma links.•
Formatted consistently and stored in SharePoint.•
Technical Details:
Source from latest approved version in Figma.•
Collaborate with Kay and Andre for clarifications.•
Upload final document to SharePoint and link to Jira ticket.•
4. AUDIT –Power BI Query Logic Update
Points: 1
Owner: Greg Homstad
As a BOM Portal IT Product Owner, I want to update the Power BI query logic so that the reconciliation 
report reflects accurate SAP -vs-BOM component data.
Acceptance Criteria:
Power BI query updated per Phuong’s reconciliation logic.•
Matches design document.•
Report passes validation and is deployed.•
Technical Details:
Use only required fields in the dataset.•
Apply EXCEPT DISTINCT logic. •
Reduce column bloat to control cost.•
Ayesha’s Card –Total: 4 Points
Power BI Design Draft for Component Level Reconciliation
Points: 4
Owner: Ayesha (Power BI Developer)
As a BOM Portal Power BI Developer, I want to design visuals using the new reconciliation query so that 
each BOM authority can accurately view mismatches in component material objects.
Acceptance Criteria:
New visuals using component reconciliation query added to the report.•
Reflects granularity and aligns with provided design doc.•
Visuals are clean, concise, and meet reporting standards.•
Technical Details:
Use finalized query from Greg’s deliverable.•
Visuals must match design document formatting (color, layout, labels).•
Focus on clarity and drill -down capability. •
   What I'm Doing Page 145    
Time spent putting this document together: 3:00PM
1. Acknowledge and Reframe
Thank you for taking the time to share your perspective and outline next steps for me. I value clear 
communication and this opportunity to ensure we’re aligned on expectations, responsibilities, and how I 
can best meet them. 
2. Address the “Disconnect” Directly
From my perspective, a key challenge has been a fundamental disconnect between how my role was 
defined at the outset, how responsibilities were communicated, and the ongoing support provided. 
Many of my daily activities were based on my original onboarding, early direction from leadership, and 
the team workflows I was integrated into. If those expectations have since evolved, I believe we haven’t 
yet had a structured conversation that fully realigned them.
3. Respond to Specific Concerns
I recognize the importance of timely task completion, backlog management, and serving as a central 
contact for developers and stakeholders. I also acknowledge that there are areas where I can improve 
execution and efficiency. At the same time, I believe additional clarity on prioritization, ownership 
boundaries, and the process for receiving task requirements would help me perform these duties at the 
expected level.
4. Highlight Efforts and Additional Responsibilities
Over the past several months, I have also taken on responsibilities outside the core Product Owner 
scope, such as [list 3 –4 key examples]. These have taken considerable time and effort, and while I have 
been committed to delivering on them, they may have reduced the bandwidth available for other 
duties. Including these contributions in our assessment will give us a more complete picture of my work.
Answer the “What do you need…” question within your rebuttal instead of leaving it only for the 
assessment form. This shows proactiveness.
Example:
. Outline What You Need for Success
To be successful in this role, I believe I need:
Role clarity –A clear, agreed -upon list of core responsibilities and priorities. •
Defined processes –Standardized processes for backlog grooming, Jira ticket validation, and stakeholder 
communications.•
Regular alignment –Biweekly check -ins to confirm priorities and address blockers early. •
Support & feedback –Timely feedback on deliverables so I can adjust in real -time. •
6. Close with Commitment
End by reaffirming your commitment to improving and aligning with expectations.
Example:
I remain fully committed to improving in all areas discussed and meeting the expectations of the 
Product Owner role. I look forward to continuing the conversation, aligning on the action plan, and 
demonstrating consistent progress in the weeks ahead.
Midyear Review:
Notes
Question
Question
Review the Talent Management site for helpful information and resources.
Manager
Answer
Answer
Greg is doing great toward his goals this year. He has been customer -focused by working 
directly with them on the UI/UX solution for BOM Portal. He continually makes sure he is 
working on the right things so that the project is successful and delivers on -time. He is working 
on an agile project and following the methodologies. He is learning a lot about our BOM Portal 
tool from both the user perspective and the technical perspective. He has offered to help 
document the new tool so that there is no longer a gap there in the future. Greg participates in 
our birthday lunches and is looking forward to future team building events.
Greg works with the RIGHT behaviors with his strongest being teamwork and growth. I can tell 
the Greg enjoys working with his team and has a passion for learning more and contributing 
more.
For future development, Greg plans to document his IDP and perform trainings and maybe a 
certification if time permits.In my onboarding plan you stated Andre was the lone analyst and the key person to guide and train me 
for this project. I took these words seriously. In that onboarding plant I was to learn to navigate:
Hana Studio for EAP
SQL for GCP
Sharepoint for Product Costing documentation
TEAMS for project channels and chats AWS console PowerBI tysons authoritative BOM Portal 
Space
SAP Fiori 
Gitlab 
Splunk familiarization 
Intro to BOM Portal
Understand what bom portal app is
Learn to navigate bom portal
Learn systems infrastructure
Learn correlation with external systems. 
Introduction to BOM Master Formulation Project
Understanding requirements
Outstanding development required. 
Difference between as is against to be
Understand system landscape for EAP and SAP
Sandbox>dev>qa>preprod>production
Understand how transports move (Charm/CAB)
Understand how to validate changesHome -Tyson Culture
My Goals -Workday
Talent Management
Tyson Foods Shared Acronyms.docx
PowerPoint Presentation
Goal Description
Goal Description
Customer & Consumer Obsession : Steering Committees: All FY25 AOP projects are 
represented in Steering Committees that involve functional BU leadership. Vendor of Choice, 
consume more footprint with our business partners, move Deloitte and other consultants out of 
the business. 
Key Actions & Measurements
Key Actions & Measurements
•Strengthen Partnership with Business by providing the appropriate project review cadence and 
touchpoints throughout the year to stay closely connected with business partners to improve 
relationships, gain new business, and drive technology strategy for 24 -month roadmap.
•Leverage Product Owner / Product Manager roles with in -person meetings to prioritize backlog 
demand, complete quarterly planning cycles, and refine sprint plans.
•Routine 1:1 with Product Managers
•1 Day each week working at Business Location
•100% of AOP projects reviewed in SC meetings
•>=60% customer satisfaction score for each functional team
Goal Description
Goal Description
Data & Digital: Influence and modify the methodology IT and FIT utilizes to implement 
programs. Utilization of Agile methodology vs Waterfall.
Key Actions & Measurements
Key Actions & Measurements
•Participate in establishing dedicated FIT Finance scrum teams. Work to round out Agile across SAP 
development. Work with continuous improvement mindset using Agile ceremonies to improve 
delivery. 
•Understand Agile Framework Product Manager, Product Owner, Scrum Master, and Analyst 
responsibilities. Clearly communicate and execute agile operating model to other IT teams and 
business partners.
•Bi-weekly program review. 
•80% inflight programs in FIT utilize agile methodology 
•1 Continuous Improvement Idea
•Defined Roadmaps for each Product Team
-Ensure on -time project delivery (95%+); no change requests without council approval
Status
Status
(empty)
Category
Category
Operational Excellence
Due Date
Due Date
09/30/2025
Created by
Created by
Tricia McCoy (00053236)
Editable
Editable
Yes
View Goal Description
Greg Homstad (01273983)
Goal Description Details
Additional Details
History
Goal Description
Goal Description
Team Member Development : Team members can expand their capabilities per their grade 
level and role in FY25. 
Key Actions & Measurements
Key Actions & Measurements
•Complete learning development activities which includes four learning activities (one per quarter) and 
two EID&B activities (first by end of Q2 and second by end of Q4).
•Initiate, progress or complete certification (Lean Six Sigma, Agile / PMP, CCBA, Graduate Program via 
Guild) per job grade level and role in FY25.
•Soft Skills Development: participate in activities that facilitate soft skill development including but not 
limited to;
Creating concise and visually appealing presentations
Presenting product / project work at Strategy & Ops All Hands, Staff, Extended Staff, SteerCo, 
Digital Bytes, Tech Huddles. 
Problem solving or conflict resolution for win -win outcomes (The Five Whys) 
Increase process or technical acumen within Tyson (to be tailored)? 
Status
Status
(empty)
Category
Category
Team Member Development
Due Date
Due Date
09/30/2025
Created by
Created by
Alma Fernanda Espinoza Rodriguez (01212100)
Editable
Editable
Yes
View Goal Description
Greg Homstad (01273983)
Goal Description Details
Additional Details
History
Goal Description
Goal Description
Team Member Engagement: Make Tyson Foods a great place to work. Ensure our team 
members are happy working at Tyson Foods. Reduce unwanted attrition (voluntary) to 
sustainable levels. I enrolled in product Management cert through guild
Lauren Vaia never scheduled meeting to follow up on accomodation request. 
There is currently no process to reconcile the data between BOM Portal and SAP, as BOM Portal 
reporting is limited and inaccurate. A BOM Portal 
Master Formulations project is underway to resolve this as well as the spec change overwrite issue 
noted above. Discrepancies between the BOMs in 
BOM Portal versus SAP may result in the plants not having needed materials or ordering materials they 
are unable to use. The teams who are 
managing or using BOMs spend a great deal of time addressing and correcting data issues. BOMs that 
could not be resolved by a team member 
resulted in ~900 IT tickets during FY24. I analyzed and have been the sole analyst working on this 
building the query which someone pointed out should be done by analytics team need to get 
clarification from tricia. I am the only person delivering on the action plan
Tyson Confidential
FY25 Material Requirements Planning
and Bills of Material Audit
Detailed Audit Report Report Date: December 20, 2024
Observation Area H M I Total
SAP MRP Procedures -1 1 2
Materials Management Procedures -1 -1
BOM Data Integrity 1 1 -2
Specification Deviations -1 -1
Inventory Management --1 1
Total 1 4 2 7
Audit Services (AS) conducted an audit of material 
management processes for both the Poultry and Beef and Pork 
business units. Prepared Foods was excluded due to the
upcoming SAP Material Requirements Planning (MRP)
implementation. As part of the audit the following scope areas 
were reviewed:
• Poultry SAP MRP and Related Processes 
• Beef and Pork Materials Management 
• Bill of Material (BOM) Management 
• Select Plant Inventory Management Processes 
AS analyzed key performance metrics, conducted process 
walkthroughs and performed detailed testing to identify 
potential risks and possible opportunities.
Background and Overview: 
Having the right materials in the right place at the right time in the right quantities is key to production 
schedule adherence and meeting customer 
demand. The Procurement team is leading the implementation of SAP MRP to improve materials 
planning processes. 
MRP helps to plan material needs and recommends purchasing and production activities with the goal 
of meeting demand and improving overall 
productivity. Safety stock levels, on hand inventory, lead times, BOMs and production schedules drive 
automated material requisitions and suggested 
production schedule changes. MRP has been rolled out to nearly all Poultry plants, with Prepared Foods 
slated to begin in January 2025. In addition 
to the SAP implementation, Regional Supply Managers have been added to oversee material 
management processes and provide a broader lens
across plants to solution material management issues.
While Beef and Pork is not using SAP MRP the business unit does manage materials using data on 
historical usage, lead times, BOMs and production 
forecasts to understand material needs. However, these processes are extremely manual with 
significant system limitations, and the process is
different across plants due to lack of standard operating procedures (SOPs) and disparate warehousing 
systems. 
Poultry MRP and Beef and Pork materials management processes are generally working as intended, but 
BOM management should be improved to 
ensure BOM inputs are accurate and plants are using the most up -to-date BOMs. Additionally, 
specification deviation processes should be reviewed 
to ensure they remain temporary in nature and are tracked and visible. While Prepared Foods was out 
of scope for the audit, this business unit is 
impacted by the BOM, specification deviation and MRP SOP issues identified and these opportunities 
will be included in the remediation efforts. 
Communication Priority: Red –High Level Finding; Yellow –Medium Level Finding; Green –Opportunity 
for Process/Control Enhancement
Tyson 
Audit Services
Tyson Confidential 2
Observation
Risk: If BOM data is not aligned between the BOM Portal and SAP the plants may run process orders that 
do not have an accurate, up -to-date and
approved BOM. Inaccurate BOM data in SAP impacts the effectiveness of MRP processes and could 
cause operational disruptions as plants and 
Corporate teams such as R&D, Finance and IT manage issues/errors. Additionally, forecasting processes 
are less accurate due to BOM discrepancies. 
Observation: 
BOMs are created, reviewed and managed in BOM Portal. A Finance BOM is created first and then 
cloned to a production BOM. Complete and 
approved BOMs are then fed to SAP via a process initiated through BOM Portal. The original production 
BOM for each material at each plant is a 3031 
BOM and alternate BOMs can be created for different production lines or formulations that should have 
the same specs as the 3031. When plants run 
a process order for a material using the BOM in SAP each component they scan to the process order will Include known problems to defend your case with audit 
OM Portal project -Data streaming policies
Lara, Andre
Weeks, Phuong; Aman, Ayesha; Homstad, Greg 
Koshy, Mohit Jerry; McCoy, Tricia 
Hello Phuong!
Thanks for the inputs you have provided, the entail definitely makes sense. We were trying to 
define if we needed to work with the ingestion team to also have BOM Portal tables available in 
the lake, adding the proper restrictions and the refresh corresponding to how often we need 
data available, I know Tyson's guidelines is to avoid direct connections to databases as it 
supposes potential vulnerabilities that could breach onto the system's source itself. We have 
prepared a Data source statement where we analyze the current available data for both BOM 
Portal and SAP in GCP (in case you want to take a look into it, please refer to the enclosed 
document), for the first one we noticed we are missing tables to deterministically refer materials 
to BOMs/Recipes as it currently only has (at prod -2134 -
entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bompdb_prod_bom_mysql_restricted_confidential) BOM Portal 
specific recipe tables (e.g.: recipe_change_hist) which cannot be correlated to any material/BOM 
reference to SAP until we have other tables ingested. 
The full mapping between SAP to BOM Portal fields and tables will be available by EOD our at 
latest on Next Monday Morning, we've been analyzing through STKO and STPO the fields to 
cross reference BOM Portal. Also looping @Homstad, Greg for visibility. 
We will keep you posted 
Roberto Andre Lara
Lead Application Analyst MXT
IT Finance Controlling and Costing .
Cellphone : (+52) 8717615995
Email : roberto.lara@tyson.com
Tyson Mexico Trading Company
Blvd. Las Quintas 80 Int 3,
Torreon, Coahuila, MX.
From: Weeks, Phuong <Phuong.Le@tyson.com >
Sent: Friday, March 14, 2025 6:16 AM
To:Aman, Ayesha <Ayesha.Aman@tyson.com >
Cc:Koshy, Mohit Jerry <MohitJerry.Koshy@tyson.com >; Lara, Andre <ROBERTO.LARA@tyson.com >; 
McCoy, Tricia <Tricia.McCoy@tyson.com >
Subject: Re: BOM Portal project -Data streaming policies
You should use the tables identified and ingested in GCP from bom portal and SAP, apply the 
appropriate logic to do the comparison.  I already referenced a few that we noted earlier in our 
previous chat.  Do you have the mapping logic and the full table list?
From: Aman, Ayesha <Ayesha.Aman@tyson.com >
Sent: Friday, March 14, 2025 7:09 AM
To:Weeks, Phuong <Phuong.Le@tyson.com >SCRUM One SCRUM All -Agile Overview training.pptxPerformance Evaluation
Thursday, August 07, 2025 3:17 PM
   What I'm Doing Page 146    
Goal Description Details
Additional Details
History
Goal Description
Goal Description
Team Member Engagement: Make Tyson Foods a great place to work. Ensure our team 
members are happy working at Tyson Foods. Reduce unwanted attrition (voluntary) to 
sustainable levels. 
Key Actions & Measurements
Key Actions & Measurements
•Fun: Conduct monthly, quarterly and yearly events with all Ops & EFIT team members
•Participate in 4 events (IMPACT,  BRG, WIT, IT Picnic etc). in FY25
•Attend at least 4 Ops & EFIT or individual team building / service projects
-Using Cultivate (BI Worldwide) to recognize team members in the organization
•Engagement survey score greater than IT & Corporate avg
•Manage satisfaction score >=80%
•Attrition below IT average
Status
Status
(empty)
Category
Category
Team Member Development
Due Date
Due Date
09/30/2025
Created by
Created by
Alma Fernanda Espinoza Rodriguez (01212100)
Editable
Editable
YesBOMs are created, reviewed and managed in BOM Portal. A Finance BOM is created first and then 
cloned to a production BOM. Complete and 
approved BOMs are then fed to SAP via a process initiated through BOM Portal. The original production 
BOM for each material at each plant is a 3031 
BOM and alternate BOMs can be created for different production lines or formulations that should have 
the same specs as the 3031. When plants run 
a process order for a material using the BOM in SAP each component they scan to the process order will 
be checked against the 3031 BOM in BOM 
Portal. If the component is not on the 3031 BOM or the 3031 BOM does not exist in BOM Portal the 
plant will receive a “not on BOM” message and 
should not complete the process order. 
There are known issues with BOMs being deleted from BOM Portal and not SAP. AS selected eight plants 
and compared the available and active 
BOMs in SAP to the corresponding BOMs in BOM Portal. The following inconsistencies were identified:
• There were 87 active BOMs found in SAP that were not in BOM Portal. Of these BOMs, 13 were 
recently used for process orders. 
• Of the 13 BOMs recently used for process orders, 11 BOMs had a 3031 BOM in BOM Portal. Two BOMs 
did not have a 3031 BOM in BOM 
Portal. AS noted the primary ingredient in these BOMs was a disassembly WIP that is a valid exception 
to the control.
Other known gaps:
• BOM Portal does not require phantom BOMs to be sent to SAP when transmitting production BOM 
data. 
• Certain spec changes to BOMs will overwrite existing valid data points in the BOMs. 
• When BOM changes are dated in the future the component will sometimes be deleted in BOM Portal 
but not in SAP.
There is currently no process to reconcile the data between BOM Portal and SAP, as BOM Portal 
reporting is limited and inaccurate. A BOM Portal 
Master Formulations project is underway to resolve this as well as the spec change overwrite issue 
noted above. Discrepancies between the BOMs in 
BOM Portal versus SAP may result in the plants not having needed materials or ordering materials they 
are unable to use. The teams who are 
managing or using BOMs spend a great deal of time addressing and correcting data issues. BOMs that 
could not be resolved by a team member 
resulted in ~900 IT tickets during FY24.
Recommendation:
A reconciliation control should be developed between BOM Portal and SAP which will require the 
development of BOM Portal reporting/data extraction. 
Additionally, functionality should be added to BOM Portal to clarify for the user that “Delete” will not 
remove a BOM from SAP, but rather is used when a 
BOM may need to be rebuilt to match SAP if the BOM Portal BOM is corrupted.
Approved Action Plan
The BOM Portal Master Formulations project underway will result in BOM Portal data being available in 
GCP. The project is scheduled to be completed 
9/30/2025. Completion of this process will allow for the creation of an automated, near real -time 
detailed reconciliation process between SAP and the 
BOM Portal. In the interim, the creation of a semi -automated/manual reconciliation mechanism at the 
BOM level will be explored to mitigate this risk 
sooner than the December 31, 2025 due date for the fully automated, near real -time reconciliation.
H #1 –BOM Data Integrity (Poultry)
Tyson Confidential 3
Action Plan Owners: Ken McCreary, Director Cost Accounting COE; Allen Shanks, Sr. Director Corporate 
Accounting; John Tran, Sr. Manager 
Applications; Jerrett Ableitner, Sr Director Applications; Chelsey Marr, Managing Director Information 
Systems 
Due Date: December 31, 2025
Tyson Confidential 4
Observation
Risk: If BOM data is not aligned between the mainframe and the Pack database the plants may run 
process orders that do not have an accurate, up to -date and approved BOM. This can lead to 
inefficiencies with material planning processes, potential operational disruptions and inaccurate 
forecasting.
Observation: 
Beef and Pork packaging BOMs are created, reviewed and updated in the Pack database and transferred 
to New Product Development (NPD) at the 
Corporate level. Updated BOMs are available to plants in PDF format and plants manually update the 
BOM data in the mainframe. 
AS selected 10 plant -level BOMs in the mainframe, compared their key data fields to the packaging 
specifications in NPD and the unit costing in Stores
and noted the following:
•  our of the 10 plant -level BOMs in the mainframe contained inactive or incorrect part numbers 
compared to the packaging specifications NPD 
document. Pack database uses a nine -character alphanumeric part number, but the mainframe system, 
managed by Plant Accountants, uses a 
seven -digit numeric code. Plant Accountants manually convert part numbers from Pack database, often 
leading to errors and mismatches. 
Two of the 10 plant -level BOMs had variances between the unit cost of part numbers in the mainframe 
compared to the unit cost per the Stores 
system. This was due to unit prices not being updated in the mainframe.
• Overall, AS noted a misalignment in the units of measure used in BOMs for standard usage. The unit of 
measure plants order against from 
suppliers and the unit of measure plants use to manage their inventory does not match, resulting in 
discrepancies when compared to the Pack 
database system.
Recommendation:
To help reduce errors and improve efficiency in the BOM updating process, Beef and Pork should 
consider implementing a process to eliminate the 
manual nature of BOM updates or, at minimum, a reconciliation control.
Approved Action Plan
• The SpecRight application is currently being implemented, which will replace Pack database. As part of 
this implementation packaging
specifications are being reviewed and migrated to SpecRight. 
• Once this is complete, a PowerBI dashboard will be created to house the BOM data. Reporting will be 
run out of PowerBI and the mainframe in 
parallel for a period of time to ensure the process is functioning as designed. With the implementation 
of the PowerBI dashboard, reviews of 
units of measure and costing will occur in partnership with the Finance team to ensure the data is 
accurate and aligned to the mainframe for 
inventory purposes. From that point all BOM data will be housed in SpecRight and PowerBI, eliminating 
the need for the plants to update 
separate BOMs in the mainframe. This effort should be completed by 9/30/2025.
Action Plan Owners: Johnathon Tran, Sr. Manager Packaging; Tendai Dete, Director, Beef and Pork 
Accounting; Carl West, Beef and Pork 
Accounting; Stephanie Teague, Director, Beef and Pork Control 
Due Date: September 30, 2025
M #2 –BOM Data Integrity (Beef and Pork)
Tyson Confidential 5
Observation
Risk: If a product is continuously produced using a product specification deviation rather than the 
approved BOM, it impairs data accuracy for costing, 
material ordering and sourcing strategies. Additionally, if specification deviations are not visibly tracked 
with end dates plants may use the deviation 
longer than necessary.
Observation: 
Specification deviations are requested when a plant must use a component (e.g., ingredient, packaging, 
WIP) that is not listed on the BOM, either 
because they do not have a required component, a required component is unable be used due to plant 
equipment limitations or they have excess 
components they would like to use. These specification deviations must be approved by FSQA or other 
relevant corporate team members (e.g., 
Product Managers, R&D, Packaging). A plant can only use the component for the process order once the 
specification deviation is approved.
For Poultry, AS noted from review of specification deviation reports and inquiry with FSQA that 
specification deviations are often requested for 90 days
which is typically the maximum number of days a deviation can be approved. If the plants still require 
the deviation after 90 days they must be 
requested again. Plants can request a specification change to add these alternative components to the 
BOM; however, specification changes are often 
delayed for a year or more, resulting in repeated specification deviations. In 2024, more than 13,000 
specification deviations were requested across 
Poultry and Prepared Foods plants. Of these, ~1,000 were requested 3 or more times, with WIP 
components driving the most frequently repeated 
requests. As of December there are ~1,900 active spec deviations. Many of these specification McCoy, Tricia <Tricia.McCoy@tyson.com >
Subject: Re: BOM Portal project -Data streaming policies
You should use the tables identified and ingested in GCP from bom portal and SAP, apply the 
appropriate logic to do the comparison.  I already referenced a few that we noted earlier in our 
previous chat.  Do you have the mapping logic and the full table list?
From: Aman, Ayesha <Ayesha.Aman@tyson.com >
Sent: Friday, March 14, 2025 7:09 AM
To:Weeks, Phuong <Phuong.Le@tyson.com >
Cc:Koshy, Mohit Jerry <MohitJerry.Koshy@tyson.com >; Lara, Andre <ROBERTO.LARA@tyson.com >; 
McCoy, Tricia <Tricia.McCoy@tyson.com >
Subject: Re: BOM Portal project -Data streaming policies
Hi @Weeks, Phuong
Thanks for the Information. It does help alot
In Our project the tables which we are using are master data tables but we need to pull them 
from MySQL database(transactional database) into Power Bi for comparing them with that of 
gcp(SAP) tables . 
What should be done in this case scenario.
Thanks
Ayesha Aman
Get Outlook for Android
From: Weeks, Phuong <Phuong.Le@tyson.com >
Sent: Friday, March 14, 2025 1:08:44 AM
To:Aman, Ayesha <Ayesha.Aman@tyson.com >
Cc:Koshy, Mohit Jerry <MohitJerry.Koshy@tyson.com >; Lara, Andre <ROBERTO.LARA@tyson.com >; 
McCoy, Tricia <Tricia.McCoy@tyson.com >
Subject: Re: BOM Portal project -Data streaming policies
Hi Ayesha,
The official feature real -time streaming in PowerBI is being deprecated.  Everything discussed is 
in regard to direct query and imports of data in PowerBI.  This is the standard usage of PowerBI 
we have today.
We should not connect P owerbi directly to transaction system databases, especially with a 
direct connect, as it presents a risk to stability of the transaction system.  We connect to a 
reporting system, the replicate/archive version of the transaction system.  GCP Bigquery 
Data@Tyson is the biggest ecosystem that replicates transaction data for reporting.  If data is 
needed for analysis, ingestion should be requested to be replicated from source system.  In 
addition, as everything is within one big ecosystem, we should not need to heavily use any other 
features that's available within PowerBI for data flow processing .  Querying, filtering, cleaning, 
transformation, merging can be done simplistically through SQL queries or through data@tyson 
dbt builds.
As anything importing large volume of data consumes lot of resources, while it optimizes 
performance once the data volume exceeds the 500 million rows or 10GB it becomes extremely 
large.  Optimizing the PowerBI with lean SQL running against directly the database is best.  
Compute has slot limits and the cost is associated with how many rows/columns ends up 
scanning.  Optimizing through good query filter, join reduction, and appropriate table 
partitioning and indexing will help to streamline this process.  
Hope that helps.
Phuong
From: Aman, Ayesha <Ayesha.Aman@tyson.com >
Sent: Thursday, March 13, 2025 2:10 PM
To:Weeks, Phuong <Phuong.Le@tyson.com >
Cc:Koshy, Mohit Jerry <MohitJerry.Koshy@tyson.com >; Lara, Andre <ROBERTO.LARA@tyson.com >; 
McCoy, Tricia <Tricia.McCoy@tyson.com >
Subject: BOM Portal project -Data streaming policies
Dear @Weeks, Phuong ,
I hope you’re doing well.
Following our discussion yesterday, you mentioned a restriction on live streaming of data in Power BI. I 
wanted to follow up and get more details on this restriction. Could you please provide clarification on 
the specific limitations and any potential workarounds?
Additionally, I would appreciate it if you could share insights regarding Tyson’s policies on:
Computing resources•
Memory resources•
Data streaming guidelines•
This information will help us better plan and optimize our Power BI implementation. Looking forward to 
your response.
Best regards,
Ayesha Aman
Performance Assessment Template -IT Product Owner I.xls shared with me on 6/24/25
Follow -Up on Performance Expectations
Espinoza, Alma Fernanda
Homstad, Greg 
Hi Greg,
Thanks for sharing the information and for joining our follow -up meeting on Tuesday, 
June 24.
As discussed, it’s important we continue to set clear expectations ahead of our next 
check -in on Wednesday, July 30 (invite sent). While some of the previous goals 
weren’t met due to your focus on the Reconciliation Report, which we understand, we 
still need your support in evolving your role as a Product Owner.
Specifically, having both you and Andre involved in Jira validations at the end of each 
sprint would prevent the current overload on Andre. Your contribution here is key.
Since you'll be working remotely for a couple of weeks, please ensure frequent 
communication with the team and flag any risks or delays that could affect your tasks
We now recognize the Recon Report is more complex than anticipated, so please take 
into account Andre’s suggestions moving forward.
To better align efforts and measure progress, here are your key goals before our 
next evaluation:
Complete the SAP Reconciliation Report Documentation.
Document join logic and naming standards used for table relationships in 
GCP, including integration with SAP Text tables (per Andre’s 
recommendation).••
List the key blockers and challenges you've faced, and who you believe could help 
resolve them.•
Complete all Jira tasks assigned for the next sprint period (approx. July 2 –16). •
Write, track, and complete 2 user stories of your own. •
Validate at least 4 user stories from your teammates to help distribute sprint 
closure efforts•
Attend additional KT sessions by Joss, Marcelo, or Andre, questions will be asked 
during these to ensure understanding.•
   What I'm Doing Page 147    
the deviation after 90 days they must be 
requested again. Plants can request a specification change to add these alternative components to the 
BOM; however, specification changes are often 
delayed for a year or more, resulting in repeated specification deviations. In 2024, more than 13,000 
specification deviations were requested across 
Poultry and Prepared Foods plants. Of these, ~1,000 were requested 3 or more times, with WIP 
components driving the most frequently repeated 
requests. As of December there are ~1,900 active spec deviations. Many of these specification 
deviations are related to changing WIP from no 
antibiotics ever No Antibiotics Ever to No Antibiotics Important to Human Medicine (NAIHM) or from 
branding updates. 
For Beef and Pork, while approval for temporary specification deviations is tracked at the corporate level 
in Pack Database, AS noted there is no 
expiration date for the specification deviation usage, and no monitoring is in place to ensure deviations 
are only used for the time approved.
Recommendation:
Establish and communicate to plants a formal process for requesting specification deviations that will 
route to the correct decision makers. Implement 
reporting to capture and proactively address repeat specification deviations.
Approved Action Plan
Poultry:
• A specification change project to add  AIHM WIPs to relevant BOMs will be performed to eliminate a 
significant cause of WIP deviations. 
FSQA will provide the list of NAIHM -related deviations, and the Pricing team will help determine who in 
the business will initiate the specification
changes. The Master Brand project is underway and will resolve a number of packaging deviations. 
These projects will be completed by March 
31, 2025.
• The Specification Deviations policies will be updated to memorialize definitions and time limitations on 
specification deviations. This will be 
completed by February 28, 2025.
• The Spec Dev application will be updated to allow for spec changes to be requested and routed to R&D 
and Product Managers for approval. 
Once the WIP and Master Brand efforts have been completed, a new process will be implemented for 
specification change requests using this 
system update. This effort should be completed by June 30, 2025.
Action Plan Owner: Jamiea Ratcliff, Assoc Dir FSQA Programs & Policies; Macy Bowen, Lead Analyst 
Applications; Michael Rybolt, SVP Food Safety 
& Quality Assurance; Casey Yates, Sr. Director Business Operations Pricing
M #3 –Specification Deviations
Tyson Confidential 6
Due Date: June 30, 2025
Beef and Pork: 
•  QSA and the Beef and Pork Packaging team will work together to determine the appropriate solution 
to track and manage specification 
deviations, which will include visibility to timebound deviations at the plant level by January 31, 2025. 
Once this decision has been made, the 
solution will be implemented and Beef and Pork plants will be trained on the new specification deviation 
process by June 30, 2025.
Action Plan Owner: Patrick Mies, VP FSQA Beef and Pork; Johnathan Tran, Sr. Manager Packaging
Due Date: June 30, 2025
Tyson Confidential 7
M #4 –Materials Management Procedures (Beef and Pork)
Observation
Risk: If comprehensive SOPs are not developed for core processes then controls and processes may not 
be efficiently and effectively executed, 
especially in the event of team member turnover.
Observation: 
There are significant system limitations with materials management processes for Beef and Pork. Each 
plant has designed their own Excel -based
processes using inventory counts, historical production information and lead times to manage direct 
materials inventory. However, there are no direct 
materials inventory management SOPs, so the processes established at plants rely on plant personnel 
having historical and tribal knowledge. 
Beef and Pork has an ongoing project to develop Finance and Accounting (F&A) SOPs. AS noted that F&A 
responsibilities related to creating and 
reviewing packaging variance reports, ensuring inventory counts are completed timely and reviewing 
open POs will be documented as a part of the 
ongoing SOP project. Operational SOPs for direct materials inventory management processes such as 
setting and adjusting safety stock levels/lead 
times and managing Beef and Pork BOMs are not included in this project. 
Recommendation:
SOPs should be developed for key operational processes such as direct materials management at Beef 
and Pork plants. 
Approved Action Plan
Beef and Pork will define SOPs for materials ordering to document day -to-day processes and factors to 
consider for decision -making within the process. 
These SOPs will be housed in an accessible location and communicated to the appropriate plant 
personnel.
Action Plan Owner: Scott Bowerman (Beef), James Gould (CRVA), Mike Herber (Pork)
Due Date: March 31, 2025
Tyson Confidential 8
M #5 –SAP MRP Procedures (Poultry)
Observation
Risk: If comprehensive SOPs are not developed for core processes then controls and processes may not 
be efficiently and effectively executed, 
especially in the event of team member turnover.
Observation: 
An MRP policy was released in 2024 to capture the roles and responsibilities of team members, primarily 
Material Managers, related to the MRP 
process. In addition, there are several training guides on MRP, primarily related to SAP or BOM Portal 
system activities. 
The procedures and training guides for MRP are very systems -focused and many lack context for the 
reasons behind the activities the Material 
Managers are performing or when those activities are appropriate. For example, there is a document to 
describe how to set a safety stock in SAP, but 
the training does not describe why safety stock stocks should be set, the reasons it might be more 
appropriate to set a goods receipt date instead or 
when the safety stock setting should be revised.
Recommendation:
To ensure continuity in the event of team member turnover, SOPs should be more comprehensive and 
guidance on a cadence/trigger to review safety 
stock settings, lead times, excess inventory and other key data points would ensure sustainability of the 
processes established during implementation. 
As the MRP process matures the policy can also be revisited to update Material Manager expectations.
Approved Action Plan
Develop SOPs for the following MRP processes:
• Setting safety stock
• MRP types and when to use each type
• Reviewing and adjusting lead times
• Reviewing excess inventory
• Setting and managing scrap settings
Some of these SOPs will be written as SAP updates occur to reflect the most -up-to-date processes. 
These SOPs will be housed on the Procurement 
SharePoint along with the SAP MRP Training Documents.
Action Plan Owner: Dennis Joy, Director Procurement
Due Date: June 30, 2025
Tyson Confidential 9
I Improvement Observations
Audit Area Observation
SAP MRP 
Procedures
While KPIs have been developed and are being monitored by the Procurement team, there are still 
inflight efforts to track write offs effectively and improve the efficiency of KPI tracking as the process is 
highly manual. The team has a project to establish 
reason codes for write -offs and the budget to complete PowerBI dashboards this year. 
The Procurement team is also still in the process of setting up a cadence to periodically review KPIs with 
plants as many plants 
are just now completing MRP implementation. AS recommends this process be quickly established to 
ensure continued List the key blockers and challenges you've faced, and who you believe could help 
resolve them.•
Complete all Jira tasks assigned for the next sprint period (approx. July 2 –16). •
Write, track, and complete 2 user stories of your own. •
Validate at least 4 user stories from your teammates to help distribute sprint 
closure efforts•
Attend additional KT sessions by Joss, Marcelo, or Andre, questions will be asked 
during these to ensure understanding.•
Please give these goals your best effort. They’re designed to help us maintain 
momentum and keep delivering value from a Product Owner perspective.
If there’s anything you disagree with or want to clarify, let’s connect and talk it through.
Thanks,
Fernanda Espinoza, IT Operations Developer Manager
Costing & Controlling -BOM Portal 
Fernanda.Espinoza@tyson.com
Homstad, Greg
McCoy, Tricia 
Espinoza, Alma Fernanda 
Hi Fernanda and Tricia,
Here’s my updated list of areas where I would benefit from further training or a deeper 
dive:
APBs (Assembly Processing BOMs):
Walkthrough on APB management in SAP and BOM Portal —how they’re created, used, 
and common troubleshooting scenarios.
Unchecked Inventory Points:
Guidance on identifying, setting up, and correcting unchecked inventory points in the 
system, and understanding their impact on reporting and reconciliation.
Phantom BOMs:
More in -depth training on how Phantom BOMs are handled in SAP and BOM Portal, 
especially in terms of processing, structure, and reporting.
Seconds Materials:
Best practices for tracking, reporting, and reconciling seconds materials 
(byproducts/second quality) across SAP and BOM Portal.
Engineering AOP (Annual Operating Plan):
How annual operating plan updates are managed in both systems/
HashiCorp Vault Endpoints:
Review of our current Vault endpoints, authentication, securely retrieving/storing 
secrets, and integrating Vault with our application workflows.
Splunk & API Integrations:
Best practices for using Splunk for monitoring/troubleshooting, and working with APIs 
for system integration and automation.
Insomnia (API Client):
Walkthrough on using Insomnia for our API workflows —setting up requests, managing 
environments, and troubleshooting.
Cloning from GitLab:
Step-by-step instructions on cloning the application repo, setting up the local 
development environment, and collaborating with the team.
Thanks for your help in getting me up to speed on these areas!
Greg Homstad, IT Product Owner
IT Finance –Controlling and Costing
Greg.Homstad@tyson.com
Homstad, Greg
McCoy, Tricia 
Espinoza, Alma Fernanda 
Thanks for the follow -up on this email, it got lost in my inbox. 
Just confirming I’ll have the updated training recap list to you both by Monday at the 
latest. I know it’s past the original deadline —apologies for the delay. I’ve had to focus 
on the reconciliation report and due to the GCP downtime today I have more work to 
get caught up this weekend.
Fernanda, thanks for the feedback on work -from -home requests. I do have an exception 
to work from home once a week, and I’ll continue to limit my requests to that. 
Otherwise, I’ll prioritize being in the office to support the team.
Thanks for your patience.
Best,
Greg
Greg Homstad, IT Product Owner
IT Finance –Controlling and Costing
Greg.Homstad@tyson.com
McCoy, Tricia
Homstad, Greg 
Espinoza, Alma Fernanda 
Greg,
I haven’t seen the training list from you yet.  I need you to send me that list on Monday.  If there 
are gaps in your training, we need to get that resolved ASAP.
Thanks,
Tricia
Espinoza, Alma Fernanda
Homstad, Greg 
McCoy, Tricia 
Hi Greg,
Before I head off on leave, I wanted to follow up on my previous email regarding the 
training recap list. The deadline was set for Friday, May 30 , and I haven't yet received it. 
I understand you’ve been busy with the reconciliation report, but having the list is 
essential so I can coordinate with the team on who’s available to lead the training. When 
I’m out, could you please ensure that Tricia receives the list by Friday, June 13 ? Your 
help on this is really appreciated.
I also recognize that the reconciliation report has been a challenge. If you run into any 
snags or have concerns, let's address them sooner rather than later. It would be great if 
you could proactively work through any issues, and ideally, complete the tasks before 
the deadlines. We are here if you need to bounce off ideas or need extra support.
Please keep in mind the expectations defined in my previous email, we will review these 
together once I’m back on June 23. 
One more note: I've noticed you've been requesting work from home frequently lately. 
I completely understand the need for flexibility, but I’d like you to save that option for 
special situations whenever possible. As we discussed, keeping the team together, 
especially working on the same hours as Zach, is important for fostering open 
communication and a strong team culture.
Please feel free to reach out if you have any questions or need to discuss any of this 
further. Thanks so much for your efforts, and I’m looking forward to seeing everything 
come together!
Fernanda Espinoza, IT Operations Developer Manager
Costing & Controlling -BOM Portal 
Fernanda.Espinoza@tyson.com
Espinoza, Alma Fernanda
Homstad, Greg 
Hello Greg,
   What I'm Doing Page 148    
While KPIs have been developed and are being monitored by the Procurement team, there are still 
inflight efforts to track write offs effectively and improve the efficiency of KPI tracking as the process is 
highly manual. The team has a project to establish 
reason codes for write -offs and the budget to complete PowerBI dashboards this year. 
The Procurement team is also still in the process of setting up a cadence to periodically review KPIs with 
plants as many plants 
are just now completing MRP implementation. AS recommends this process be quickly established to 
ensure continued 
oversight as the team moves on to the Prepared Foods implementation.
Inventory 
Management
No issues were identified with production floor scanning to maintain inventory accuracy, though testing 
was limited due to a lack 
of data and difficulty observing on -site. However, AS noted Production Managers are often not assigned 
inventory management 
training upon hire or transition into their roles. The EIM team has developed comprehensive production 
and inventory training 
videos and documents available on the EIM Support site, along with Workday training modules for 
Production Supervisors, 
Receiving Supervisors, FSQA Supervisors and Shipping Supervisors. Recently, EIM obtained approval for 
automatic 
assignment of these trainings to relevant team members as they are hired or transition into their roles. 
AS recommends EIM
continue to work closely with Operations to ensure the trainings are completed.
Espinoza, Alma Fernanda
Homstad, Greg 
Hello Greg,
Thank you for your time this morning. As discussed, I am outlining the areas that require 
your attention and improvement.
SAP Reconciliation Report During our call, you raised a concern about why Ayesha is 
not handling the query part. After researching, I understand that Ayesha should model 
the report, but the query part should be driven by you. Given your expertise with the 
BOM portal and your knowledge of the database and process flow, it would be more 
efficient for you to handle this aspect. If you disagree, please let me know so I can 
schedule a call with Jerry and Andre to address your concern.
Working Hours I would appreciate it if you could align your office hours with Zach's, as 
this will foster a sense of team belonging. In Mexico, we agreed to work from 7 AM to 4 
PM. Maintaining these hours is crucial for team connectivity.
Training You have expressed the need for additional training. Please provide me with a 
list of topics where you feel reinforcement is necessary. Once I have your list, I will 
coordinate with Andre, Joceline, or Marcelo to cover these items and reinforce your 
knowledge. Deadline to deliver the list: Friday May 30.
Product Owner Activities I will discuss with Andre to delegate more Product Owner 
activities to you, providing clear expectations. These activities will involve user story 
creation and validation analysis.
Specific Goals for Next Evaluation To set more specific goals for our next evaluation, 
please focus on the following:
Complete the SAP Reconciliation Report.•
Work from home only when absolutely necessary.•
Answer questions after each KT session provided.•
Write, track, and complete at least four user stories created by you.•
Validate at least 2 user stories. •
Request less guidance and start guiding others.•
I have scheduled a meeting for Tuesday, June 24 , to evaluate your progress over the 
month. We will identify wins and areas for improvement to ensure we stay on track.
Thank you for your flexibility and willingness to work on these items. I truly appreciate 
your efforts and will do my best to provide you with the necessary support to succeed in 
your Product Owner role.
If you disagree with any point mentioned, please let me know, and we can connect to 
discuss it further.  Greg/Fernanda 1:1
Occurs every other Wednesday from 4:00 PM to 4:30 PM effective Wed 4/9/2025 until Wed 10/1/2025
Chat
CR-TDM Laguna -War Room 2
Espinoza, Alma Fernanda
invited you
Accepted 1, Didn't respond 1
Accept
 Decline
 Follow
Espinoza, Alma Fernanda
Homstad, Greg; CR -TDM Laguna -War Room 2 
Canceled: Greg/Fernanda 1:1
Wed 7/30/2025 4:00 PM -4:30 PM
CR-TDM Laguna -War Room 2
We will have our 1:1 during the follow up on performance call. 
Espinoza, Alma Fernanda
updated the meeting location
CR-TDM Laguna -War Room 2 CR-TDM Laguna -War Room 1
Espinoza, Alma Fernanda
Homstad, Greg; CR -TDM Laguna -War Room 2 
1:1 Meeting Agenda (30 minutes):
Check -in •
Progress•
Challenges•
Feedback •
Goals•
Wrap -up •
•Follow -Up on Performance Expectations
Espinoza, Alma Fernanda
Homstad, Greg 
Hi Greg,
Thanks for sharing the information and for joining our follow -up meeting on Tuesday, 
June 24.
As discussed, it’s important we continue to set clear expectations ahead of our next 
check -in on Wednesday, July 30 (invite sent). While some of the previous goals 
weren’t met due to your focus on the Reconciliation Report, which we understand, we 
still need your support in evolving your role as a Product Owner.
Specifically, having both you and Andre involved in Jira validations at the end of each 
sprint would prevent the current overload on Andre. Your contribution here is key.
Since you'll be working remotely for a couple of weeks, please ensure frequent 
communication with the team and flag any risks or delays that could affect your tasks
We now recognize the Recon Report is more complex than anticipated, so please take 
into account Andre’s suggestions moving forward.
To better align efforts and measure progress, here are your key goals before our 
next evaluation:
Complete the SAP Reconciliation Report Documentation.
Document join logic and naming standards used for table relationships in 
GCP, including integration with SAP Text tables (per Andre’s 
recommendation).••
List the key blockers and challenges you've faced, and who you believe could help 
resolve them.•
Complete all Jira tasks assigned for the next sprint period (approx. July 2 –16). •
Write, track, and complete 2 user stories of your own. •
Validate at least 4 user stories from your teammates to help distribute sprint 
closure efforts•
Attend additional KT sessions by Joss, Marcelo, or Andre, questions will be asked 
during these to ensure understanding.•
Please give these goals your best effort. They’re designed to help us maintain 
momentum and keep delivering value from a Product Owner perspective.
If there’s anything you disagree with or want to clarify, let’s connect and talk it through.
Thanks,
Fernanda Espinoza, IT Operations Developer Manager
Costing & Controlling -BOM Portal 
Fernanda.Espinoza@tyson.com
You
Mon 6/16/2025 7:02 AM
Hi Fernanda and Tricia, Here’s my updated list of areas where I would benefit from further training or 
a deeper dive: APBs (Assembly Processing BOMs): Walkthrough on APB management in SAP and 
BOM Portal —how they’re created, used, and common troubleshooting
Homstad, Greg
McCoy, Tricia 
Espinoza, Alma Fernanda 
Thanks for the follow -up on this email, it got lost in my inbox. 
Just confirming I’ll have the updated training recap list to you both by Monday at the 
latest. I know it’s past the original deadline —apologies for the delay. I’ve had to focus 
on the reconciliation report and due to the GCP downtime today I have more work to 
get caught up this weekend.
Fernanda, thanks for the feedback on work -from -home requests. I do have an exception 
to work from home once a week, and I’ll continue to limit my requests to that. 
Otherwise, I’ll prioritize being in the office to support the team.
Thanks for your patience.
Best,
Greg
Greg Homstad, IT Product Owner
IT Finance –Controlling and Costing
Greg.Homstad@tyson.com
McCoy, Tricia
Homstad, Greg 
Espinoza, Alma Fernanda 
Greg,
I haven’t seen the training list from you yet.  I need you to send me that list on Monday.  If there 
are gaps in your training, we need to get that resolved ASAP.
Thanks,
Tricia
   What I'm Doing Page 149    
Tricia
Espinoza, Alma Fernanda
Homstad, Greg 
McCoy, Tricia 
Hi Greg,
Before I head off on leave, I wanted to follow up on my previous email regarding the 
training recap list. The deadline was set for Friday, May 30 , and I haven't yet received it. 
I understand you’ve been busy with the reconciliation report, but having the list is 
essential so I can coordinate with the team on who’s available to lead the training. When 
I’m out, could you please ensure that Tricia receives the list by Friday, June 13 ? Your 
help on this is really appreciated.
I also recognize that the reconciliation report has been a challenge. If you run into any 
snags or have concerns, let's address them sooner rather than later. It would be great if 
you could proactively work through any issues, and ideally, complete the tasks before 
the deadlines. We are here if you need to bounce off ideas or need extra support.
Please keep in mind the expectations defined in my previous email, we will review these 
together once I’m back on June 23. 
One more note: I've noticed you've been requesting work from home frequently lately. 
I completely understand the need for flexibility, but I’d like you to save that option for 
special situations whenever possible. As we discussed, keeping the team together, 
especially working on the same hours as Zach, is important for fostering open 
communication and a strong team culture.
Please feel free to reach out if you have any questions or need to discuss any of this 
further. Thanks so much for your efforts, and I’m looking forward to seeing everything 
come together!
Fernanda Espinoza, IT Operations Developer Manager
Costing & Controlling -BOM Portal 
Fernanda.Espinoza@tyson.com
Espinoza, Alma Fernanda
Homstad, Greg 
Hello Greg,
Thank you for your time this morning. As discussed, I am outlining the areas that require 
your attention and improvement.
SAP Reconciliation Report During our call, you raised a concern about why Ayesha is 
not handling the query part. After researching, I understand that Ayesha should model 
the report, but the query part should be driven by you. Given your expertise with the 
BOM portal and your knowledge of the database and process flow, it would be more 
efficient for you to handle this aspect. If you disagree, please let me know so I can 
schedule a call with Jerry and Andre to address your concern.
Working Hours I would appreciate it if you could align your office hours with Zach's, as 
this will foster a sense of team belonging. In Mexico, we agreed to work from 7 AM to 4 
PM. Maintaining these hours is crucial for team connectivity.
Training You have expressed the need for additional training. Please provide me with a 
list of topics where you feel reinforcement is necessary. Once I have your list, I will 
coordinate with Andre, Joceline, or Marcelo to cover these items and reinforce your 
knowledge. Deadline to deliver the list: Friday May 30.
Product Owner Activities I will discuss with Andre to delegate more Product Owner 
activities to you, providing clear expectations. These activities will involve user story 
creation and validation analysis.
Specific Goals for Next Evaluation To set more specific goals for our next evaluation, 
please focus on the following:
Complete the SAP Reconciliation Report.•
Work from home only when absolutely necessary.•
Answer questions after each KT session provided.•
Write, track, and complete at least four user stories created by you.•
Validate at least 2 user stories. •
Request less guidance and start guiding others.•
I have scheduled a meeting for Tuesday, June 24 , to evaluate your progress over the 
month. We will identify wins and areas for improvement to ensure we stay on track.
Thank you for your flexibility and willingness to work on these items. I truly appreciate 
your efforts and will do my best to provide you with the necessary support to succeed in 
your Product Owner role.
If you disagree with any point mentioned, please let me know, and we can connect to 
discuss it further.  
I’ll be collecting feedback via email and will share it during our end -of-year review. I don’t believe a separate 
call is necessary at this time.
Next week, we’ll meet to align on expectations. During that call, we’ll discuss your performance in more 
detail, and I’ll share some tools to help you prepare for the end -of-year conversation.
The key areas have already been outlined and reviewed monthly, as you may recall. The same applies to the 
agreed -upon metrics and deliverables.
If you feel any of these points haven’t been communicated or established clearly, please let me know.
The main challenge I’m still facing is with the reconciliation report and validating at least four user stories to 
help close the sprint. This isn’t from a lack of effort —I’ve been committed —but I’ve run into two recurring 
obstacles:
Not having full clarity on how to validate certain cards.1.
Andre often moves ahead and completes the validation himself instead of allocating tasks, which has 
become an ongoing trend.2.
I really want to understand the best way to get involved in the validation process and take ownership of 
specific stories so I can contribute more effectively for the team. I also feel like I haven’t had many 
opportunities to collaborate this year. 
I’d appreciate any guidance on how I can position myself to be more involved and collaborative, as well as 
how I can own my responsibilities when Andre decides to handle them directly instead. My goal is to make 
sure I’m adding value, building the right skills, and not just stepping back when things get tough.
I understand and would like to get more details on this. However, I believe it's important that we discuss it 
over a call, that’s why we’ve been tracking it closely, and I’ve already scheduled time for us next week.
Let’s use that opportunity to expand on your points and determine the next steps together.
Will this be your first end -year review? 
Yes
Got it, I will describe the process on our next meeting. 
Okay! Thank you
Hey, just to let you know I am prioritizing the Developer training today! I wanted to join the meeting for the 
Analyst/Product Owner Community of practice but I figured the training would need to be prioritized over 
that. Sean is going to send me notes from that meeting and I'll review the recording at a later time. I really 
want to start prioritizing being more involved within the COP moving forward, I just didn't have it fully on my 
radar otherwise I would've seen if we could reschedule the dev training. I'm looking forward to the training 
   What I'm Doing Page 150    
radar otherwise I would've seen if we could reschedule the dev training. I'm looking forward to the training 
though so I can get more training on integrations, endpoints, and authentication methods. I feel like I'm 
lacking in knowledge in that area so thank you for making me apart of these sessions as well. 
These sessions are part of the training you requested as part of the performance review conversations, we 
will have two sessions with Joss. 
Thank you so much for this, these are going to be so helpful
Happy to help! I will call you later today to complete the ARS Annual Review together. 
Hello, 
Are you available for a quick call to complete the ARS Review? 
Yes!!
Calling....
Good morning Greg, I hope you're doing well. 
One favor, could you please change your calendar invite from working elsewhere to free?
Keeping the working elsewhere is affecting everyone's calendar. 
Hey, I just checked the calendar invite and it is set to free. Is there something else that could be causing that?
I did a check and it was sent as working elsewhere, if it's now free, the issue should be fixed. Thanks! 
Okay awesome!! 
The link to the document is in the comments on the jira card 
Thank you, I will take a look right after this meeting 
Could you please add a section with the Component Material document to include Phuong's comments?
Yes!! 
Thanks, please let me know once it's there to take a look 
Hey, did you want something specifically in the design document? I went ahead and created a new doc 
Component Level Review with Phuong and placed it in the corresponding folder in sharepoint. I'm going to 
use this doc for all updates moving forward with phuong. 
Component Level Review with Phuong.docx
Please add this new document in the comments of the card 
I'm checking it right now 
Okay! 
I have added it to the comments 
Grag, can I call you to review the documents?
Sure!Update: 
Hi everyone,
I had a very productive meeting with Phuong. Some of the biggest takeaways are:
Use Except Distinct for discrepancy logic •
Update query to remove noise, ie unnescary fields for reconciliation•
SAP is considered to be master data, normalize bom portal to match raw SAP data. •
I will be refactoring the query and reviewing with Phuong once complete. 
Espinoza, Alma Fernanda added Lucero, Joceline Estefania to the chat and shared all chat history. 
Homstad, Greg We took the decision of not marking your task as Done
What do I need to do? 
Please provide the evidence of your acceptance criteria as validated by Andre. 
? Like what I sent to Jerry? 
This is really concerning to me. Why are we revisiting and changing the acceptance criteria for a task that’s 
already in “Validate” status? That shouldn't be happening at this stage.
To be honest, I’m not comfortable with this approach. No one else is doing it, and it feels like we're bending 
the process, again. We went through this exact scenario last sprint, and here we are repeating it.
You’re the one creating these stories, and from what I see, it’s as if you’re working on tasks for weeks without 
validating against the original criteria. That’s a problem, not just for accountability, but for the integrity of the 
sprint.
That’s correct. We highlighted this issue in the call. You’re correct I go off of the criteria I have sent to Jerry. 
This sprint it was not updated accordingly and changes were made. So again what needs to be done for this 
card to be validated? 
Joss will provide you with that information. 
Lara, Andre -Greg still needs additional clarification on his current sprint. Could you please provide the details 
he needs, so he can send me the updated version of the cards to be loaded?
Just provided some feedback on both validation and the definition of new cards. The first one has fairly 
simple changes
Updated the cards with andre's provided feedback! Let me know if you find any more issues? 
Homstad, Greg  Can you make sure to connect with Ayesha before u leave , if not she will miss 2  working 
days 
Yes absolutely! I will reach out to her now and see if she can meet after my meeting with Andre and Kay so 
we can go through the details. 
I have updated the document I saw that Andre commented on and have also updated the Jira card in the 
comments. 
Hey, I reached out to Ayesha but she was offline by the time I sent her the message at 11AM. 
Homstad, Greg
Hey, I reached out to Ayesha but she was offline by the time I sent her the message at 11AM.
can u check in morning or not 
Yeah!
ok cool
Hey Lara, Andre,I am still waiting for your comments to my card once again, could you please provide those 
details or give the go ahead to close the card?
Sorry Greg, I was caught with some analysis on the code, let me get that validated
Homstad, Greg 
Hey Lara, Andre,I am still waiting for your comments to my card once again, could you please provide those 
details or give the go ahead to close the card?
Lara, Andre I was going penalize you
Thank you!!!
Hey, I was staring at the comment where I mentioned on vagueness, I created a prompt with GPT, and to 
avoid pasting it all in another panel, I'm putting it here: 
Prompt: 
GPT, in the topic of RDBMS, I'm trying to review a document that explains the purpose to build a query to 
produce a reconciliation report at a given granularity. As I read through it, I realized there is a statement that 
doesn't seem to be conveying enough information, please analyze this: "Output should only include the key 
fields (for component material level reconciliation, see Composite Key under Key Principles ) required to 
identify mismatches, all other reporting logic should be done from a data reporting perspective in PowerBI".  
Particularly, the "output should only include the key fields(...)" part, please provide an analysis of this and 
how it could be better phrased
GPT Answer: 
Great question —you're absolutely right to focus on clarity here, especially in documentation involving 
RDBMS and reconciliation logic, where precision is critical.
Original Statement for Review:
"Output should only include the key fields (for component material level reconciliation, see Composite Key 
under Key Principles) required to identify mismatches, all other reporting logic should be done from a data 
reporting perspective in PowerBI."
Analysis of the Statement (Focusing on: "Output should only include the key fields..."):
Ambiguity in "Output":
It's unclear what output is being referred to —the output of a SQL query? A database view? An 
intermediate dataset?•
The term “output” could mean different things depending on the context —backend data 
extract vs. frontend report.•1.
"Only include the key fields" lacks context:
It doesn't specify which key fields. •
It loosely references component material level reconciliation, which assumes the reader 
understands both the domain context and the referenced "Composite Key under Key 
Principles" —this should be more self -contained or paraphrased.•2.
   What I'm Doing Page 151    
Principles" —this should be more self -contained or paraphrased.
Missing clarity on the why :
The intent is to separate data preparation from data presentation (i.e., logic in SQL vs. PowerBI), 
but this isn’t explained clearly.•
Saying “all other reporting logic should be done in PowerBI” is helpful, but the reason this 
distinction exists isn't articulated.•3.
Suggested Rewrite (Clearer and More Self -Contained):
"The SQL query output should include only the fields necessary to uniquely identify records and detect 
mismatches —typically the composite key fields at the component material level (refer to 'Composite Key' 
under Key Principles for details). All aggregation, formatting, and reporting logic should be implemented in 
PowerBI, not in the query layer."
Breakdown of Improvements:
Problem Improvement
Vague "output" Specified it's the SQL query output
"key fields" undefined Clarified it's to uniquely identify records and detect mismatches
Parenthetical reference Reworded for clarity and smoother integration
Implicit architectural split Explicitly separated query layer vs. reporting layer
Passive tone Made it directive and easier to follow
Let me know if you'd like help rewording the rest of that paragraph or the whole document section —
especially if you're working on a reconciliation pipeline or data architecture where these distinctions matter.
All of this, just to check with you: I actually like how it was rephrased, seems to be more specific, would it be 
okay if we add it like that?
Might be picky from my side, but I'm trying with everyone to be as specific as we can lol
I have included the language you have instructed me to. Although, I don't see this as a blocker to 
closing the card because it is not in the acceptance criteria as mentioned in my comments on Jira. Also 
I don't understand how clarity is an issue when this whole document is for the Query guidelines for 
reconciliation as identified in the purpose section. 1.
Key fields specifically says SQL query output should include key fields to the SQL query to identify 
mismatches. 2.
I agree with you on clarity as to overall why. (I don’t have the why as of now as my discussions just 
begun with Phuong, and this card shouldnt be considered part of the acceptance criteria for my 
current open card. 3.
Dude, I am trying to work with you but at somepoint we need to call it done. In my eyes a card could've been 
made for this. Also, how are you going to tell a GPT to review something and then fail to give it all the context 
it needs, I don't think we should be using GPT entirely for this either for your response. Again, as I have 
stated. How does this effect the card from not being able to be closed? If you are treating this as a seperate 
task entirely as it should be that works with the document I have produced for the card. This document 
however is for this current sprints work, not the card that was to be closed. Yes I'm always open to critiques 
and improvements, but the way this card has been handled is really throwing me off as again, all of your 
comments are not for the card we need to close. 
I simply asked, "are you okay with this phrase" that's it, wasn't it?
Yes!! and I'm good but dude this isn't the card 
a
   What I'm Doing Page 152    
Response Package:
1. Fact -Checked Response Package:
Emails and Internal Documentation Analysis:
Role Definition and Expectation Misalignment : There is a clear disconnect between the initial role 
definition and evolving responsibilities. Greg's role as a Product Owner seems to have shifted without 
structured communication, leading to confusion 【8:0†source】.•
Performance and Task Completion : Greg has acknowledged areas for improvement in task execution 
and efficiency. He cites a need for clearer prioritization and task ownership boundaries 【8:0†source】
【8:1†source】.•
Additional Responsibilities : Greg has taken on duties beyond his core role, impacting his capacity to 
perform expected tasks 【8:0†source】.•
2. Performance Assessment Draft:
Scores :
Task Execution : Needs Improvement -due to delays in completing tasks like the SAP Reconciliation 
Report【8:1†source】.•
Communication : Satisfactory -proactive in raising concerns but needs better alignment with team 
expectations 【8:1†source】【 8:6†source】.•
Adaptability : Good -has adapted to new responsibilities, though at the cost of core 
duties【8:0†source】【 8:3†source】.•
Evidence :
Task Delays : Delays in delivering the training recap list and SAP Reconciliation 
Report【8:3†source】【 8:1†source】.•
Proactive Communication : Frequent follow -ups and requests for clarification on 
tasks【8:3†source】【 8:6†source】.•
Adaptability : Handling tasks outside the core Product Owner scope, such as 
documentations 【8:0†source】.•••
3. "What I Need to Be Successful" Statement:
To be successful in this role, Greg needs:
Role Clarity : A clear, agreed -upon list of core responsibilities and priorities. •
Defined Processes : Standardized processes for task management and stakeholder 
communication 【8:0†source】.•
Regular Alignment : Biweekly check -ins to confirm priorities and address blockers early. •
Support & Feedback : Timely feedback on deliverables to enable real -time adjustments 【8:8†source】. •
4. Timeline of Relevant Events:
March 2025 : Discussion on BOM Portal data streaming policies 【8:12†source】. •
June 16, 2025 : Follow -up on training requirements and work -from -home policies 【8:10†source】. •
June 24, 2025 : Scheduled meeting to evaluate progress and set specific goals 【8:6†source】. •
July 30, 2025 : Check -in to set clear expectations and discuss role evolution 【8:1†source】. •
5. Professional Email Reply Draft:
plaintextCopy Code
Subject: Follow -Up on Role Expectations and Support
Dear Fernanda,
Thank you for your continued support and guidance. I appreciate the opportunity 
to align on expectations and responsibilities as we move forward. I am committed 
to improving in the areas discussed and am eager to contribute more effectively 
to our team's success.
To ensure I meet expectations, I would appreciate regular feedback and clarity on
task priorities. I am also keen on establishing defined processes for task 
management and communication to enhance efficiency.
Please let me know a convenient time for us to discuss these points further.
Best regards,
Greg Homstad
Input Files Utilized:
Time spent putting this document together 300PM.docx•
Next Steps or Recommendations:
Meeting Scheduling : Arrange biweekly check -ins to ensure alignment with management. •
Process Standardization : Develop clear guidelines for task management and communication. •
Training and Development : Identify specific training needs and schedule sessions with relevant team 
members.•Essential Duties and 
Responsibilities: TM Assessment (0 -5) -Do this 
first TM Comments Manager 
Assessment -Do 
this 2nd Manager Notes Suggested Actions -Do this 3rd
1 Requirements Gathering: Learn 
and observe how to work 
closely with stakeholders, 
including customers, sales, 
marketing, and engineering 
teams, to gather and prioritize 
product requirements.4 -Proficient: Has 
demonstrated the task 
satisfactorily.
Evidence –All of the 
requirements gathering I've 
done for UX/UI which has been 
validated and part of my regular 
working cards.  
My previous work experience as 
an IT If
2 Product Planning: Assist in 
creating and maintaining the 
product roadmap, defining 
features, and release timelines 
based on business objectives 
and user needs2 -Attempted: Has attempted 
the task but with significant 
errors or requires substantial 
guidance. I have attempted to 
get aligned with my coworkers 
for this exact thing
I would like to clarify I am 
always happy to assist but this 
isn't a core practice for the role 
of Product Owner and as such it 
shouldn’t be under essential 
duties and responsibilities. 
Assisting with this task is too 
broad, what kind of assistance is 
expected and where do we 
draw the line between core 
responsibilities and training 
requirements for career growthI have asked to 
assist in these 
things, I have not 
been included. 
(attach 
conversation 
screenshots here), 
Ultimately this is 
Andre's position as 
he is the acting 
Product Manager 
(attach Product 
Manager Role 
responsibilities 
here) Please do not 
include core 
responsibilities 
which are not my 
own to base my 
metrics off. 
3 Cross -Functional Collaboration: 
Collaborate with cross -
functional teams, including 
design, engineering, marketing, 
and sales, to ensure alignment 
and execution of product 
initiatives4 -Proficient: Has 
demonstrated the task 
satisfactorily.Kay set an amazing 
example at how 
this should be 
done, by a process. 
Unfortunately from 
another 
perspective there's 
been a lot of 
conversations and 
work done  that 
didn't follow a 
process that I was 
led to believe was 
the way to do 
things by my 
product manager 
and my trainers. 
Ways I can 
improve: More 
consistency in 
following up with 
Kay distinctly. 
Things often get 
lost in translation 
when meetings 
happen while I'm 
away and concepts 
are overexplained 
to the n'th degree. 
To truly own this I 
can improve on 
requiring my 
attendance in all 
meetings with 
UX/UI. Currently in 
practice meetings 
have been held 
without me as 
Andre has taken on 
this task now as 
well. 
4 Feature Prioritization: 
Understand how to prioritize 
features and enhancements 
based on their impact on user 
experience, business value, and 
technical feasibility.I feel like I have a clear 
understanding of how this is 
to be done and how to do it. 
Again I want to reiterate in 
Agile this is the Responsibility 
of Product Manager. 4. I feel like I clearly 
understand how to 
prioritize features 
and enhancements, 
again this is not my 
responsibility as the 
product owner my 
responsibility is to 
break down 
features that have 
been defined by 
the product 
manager.  I don't 
see any issues here. 
5 Project Coordination: Observe 
and learn to coordinate project 
activities, tasks, and timelines, 
ensuring that milestones are 
met, and deliverables are 
completed on time and within 
scope0 –Why is this on here? Am I to 
be acting as a Project Manager 
as well? Should I be auditing all 
my teammates work in addition 
to my work? I have not been 
trained on this please elaborateAreas to improve:
I'm not a project 
manager. If I was 
I'm sure this would 
apply better, again I 
can assist in this no 
problem but it is 
still not one of my 
core responsibilities
6 Documentation: Create and 
maintain product 
documentation, including user 
stories, feature specifications, 
and release notes, to 
communicate requirements 
and updates to stakeholders.5 –I have shown I am able to do 
this. A fundamental problem 
here is defining the definition of 
done. When I go to my product 
manager to validate I am often 
met with suggestions, not 
substantial changes or things 
that affect the card to the point 
of not being able to close it. I 
feel changes of this caliber 
should be made into a new card 
and added to the backlog. 
Something I have voiced 
previously.  All of my 
documentation is reviewed and 
validated by the Product 
Manager. This is my 
responsibility ultimately 
however again my product 
manager has been taking over If further clarification is needed on role definition I have attached a copy of the solidified. I'm finding several problems in the performance assessment template. Where is the line between 
product owner 1, 2, and manager. Because from the past year. I am concerned with Andre's over 
involvement in the details and I think he is losing track on overall concepts and responsibilities and 
seperation of concerns between a project team. 
If this is meant to be specific to my role can we please focus soley on the things specific to my role and 
my core responsibilities this has introduced more questions and misconceptions as to what my role is 
from an agile perspective , what I am to be trained on for future roles and what my core responsibilities 
are vs training for future. I am not a manager currently. To answer your question as to what is needed 
for me to be successful. 
I need my managers to first have a clear understanding of my current position, how it relates to the 
product career path, and how it is defined at every level. In my eyes my core responsibilities derived 
from the IT Job Architecture Job Profiles Document. From there here is a list of my responsibilities:
Colloaborate with product owners and cross functional teams to gain experience in understanding 
voice of the customer and product management methodologies. 
Colloborate to translate requirements into actionable user stories and acceptance criteria. 
Participate in sprint planning, retrospectives, backlog grooming and daily stand ups. These are 
different then the tasks you pulled for number 6. 
Guide team in delivering high quality customer centric solutions on time and within budget. 
Focus on continuous improvement. 
I am not wanting to nitpick this I am simply saying it is laid out in the first paragraph what is to be done. 
As I am going through the job architecture job profiles there is a lot that I wasn't trained on, there's a lot 
in my mind we  that wasn’t considered during my training.  vs developed.  in y mind I figure the Project 
manager ons why and what, then from that po owns what exactly and when specifically order in sprints
Team manager owns who and how we staff/enable staffPerformance Evaluation Continued:
Thursday, August 07, 2025 6:56 PM
   What I'm Doing Page 153    
manager has been taking over 
these assignments without 
clarification or communication 
that he is it's just evolved that 
way. I've only been expected to 
create cards for myself and 
Ayesha as of recent per Ferns 
request to 
7 Testing and Validation: Learn 
and observe how user 
acceptance testing (UAT) and 
validation of product features 
work to ensure they meet 
quality standards and user 
expectations.5 –
Areas to improve as a team:
Issue Managing priorities when 
things change. (Reference how 
Andre and Kay's conversations 
have gone) Learning the process 
things need to be completed on 
a high -level so details arent lost 
in trying to define granularity of 
test. 
8 Performance Monitoring: 
Understanding and assisting in 
defining and tracking key 
performance indicators (KPIs) 
and metrics to measure 
product performance and 
success.2 –Attempted: Has attempted 
with significant errors or 
substantial guidance 
I have not been looped in on 
many conversations that I need 
to be apart of. We all need to 
be aware of intended audience 
when we are working. 
9 Continuous Improvement: 
Continuously seek 
opportunities for 
improvement, gathering 
feedback from users and 
stakeholders to iterate on 
product features and enhance 
the overall user experience5 -Every chance I get I look at 
ways to improve, gather 
feedback, ask for help from the 
respected audience. I am 
currently enrolled to take a 
product management course 
outside the training of my 
normal job functions to better 
enhance my understanding of 
my current function vs where I 
would like to continue to grow 
to. I think I make it clear that is 
seen in many conversations. 
10 Learning and Development: 
Stay informed about industry 
trends, best practices, and 
emerging technologies in 
product management, seeking 
out learning opportunities to 
grow and develop in the role5 –I have demonstrated my 
ability to adhere to best 
practices, and I've 
demonstrated a clear desire to 
continue learning and 
development. 
Areas of improvement: Best 
Practices –this is something we 
need to reference 
documentation to when it is 
called out specifically. I recently 
audited a coworkers cards and 
see a gap in what they are 
saying vs what is defined. 
11 Customer Support: Provide 
support to customer -facing 
teams, including responding to 
customer inquiries, addressing 
product -related issues, and 
assisting with customer 
training and onboarding.5 –Excellent:
I talk with doug regularly. When 
there is a problem he comes to 
me directly often. I have 
demonstrated my abilities to 
work with the customer not 
only in mind but as a priority as 
at the end of the day this 
product is for them, not 
something we are creating to 
make our lives easier, but to 
make theres. I think this needs 
to be talked about more as well 
with how we handle pushback 
and significant concerns called 
out by the business that can 
impact the overall timeline as 
seen recently. 
12 Team Collaboration: 
Collaborate with product 
management peers and other 
team members, sharing 
knowledge, insights, and best 
practices to foster a culture of 
collaboration and continuous 
learning.This needs improvement as I 
have demonstrated I can do 
this however again we need 
to have better processes to 
make sure especially for 
functional information 
impacting BOM forge that all 
parties that need to be 
involved are involved and that 
should be defined. 3.
13 Perform other assigned job -
related duties that align with 
our organization's vision, 
mission, and values and fall 
within your scope of practice.I have demonstrated that I 
can preform this task well as I 
am currently tasked with 
about 80% Analysis/Support 
work vs the 20% that's been 
dedicated to product owner 
responsibilities which I've only 
recently have began the 
process of alignment. 5.
Special Skills: 
1 Methodology: Foundational 
knowledge of Agile Product 
and Waterfall methodology.I am new! Needs 
improvement. I have a lack of 
understanding now more 
than ever of the knowledge of 
agile product and waterfall 
methodology. Also I thought 
we where supposed to be 
moving away from waterfall 
methodology? Is this wrong 
again seperation of concerns3.
2 Communication: Effective 
communication, able to 
present to team and 
management.0 –I don't feel like I've been 
given exposure to this 
regardless of me saying hey, can 
we figure out a way for me to 
speak on anyting at steerco 
meetings? Can I present things 
instead of Andre critiquing my 
work, and then just going ahead 
and presenting it himself as his 
work. Again clear disconnect 
from priorities. 
3 Decision -Making: Value -based 
decision -making.Excellent. I've been told up 
until tricia told me it was not 
a high priority item that I 
should be treating the 
reconciliation report as high 
priority as we prepare for our 
ETL steps. 5.
4 Problem -solving: Analytical 
skills for diagnosing and solving 
issues.Where I have been able to 
demonstrate this from start to 
finish I feel like I have 
demonstrated this extremely 
well. This past 6 months I 
learned an entire new db. I 
learned how to manage that 
db schema definition around 
production Planning entities 
within SAP how the database 
interacts with bom portal, 
what issues there currently 
are that have been assigned 
as my tasks. Problem solving 
is my specialty, and I wish that 
I would have a chance to use 
my brain more and be heard 
more when I do speak up.5.
   What I'm Doing Page 154    
more when I do speak up.
5 Organization: Managing time, 
prioritizing tasks, and handling 
responsibilities.I have demonstrated in all my 
validated tasks, in all of my 4.
6 Learning: Self -motivated and 
willing to learn new 
technologies and adapt to 
change.Yuh this coincides with 
question 10. Ability to adapt to 
change has been shown to be 
an issue on the team not on me. 
I have no problem changing 
responsibilities, timelines. 
Right Behaviors: 
R Results Validated by Andre's 
reccomendations I have 
produced significant results that 
will be used by cost accounting 
for months to come to reconcile 
data between bom and SAP. 
I Innovation Worked on a plan with 
fernanda about implementing 
GPT. I have not been as 
dedicated to this as I would like 
to be, however I think some 
functional aspects need to be 
defined and marked done
G Growth Mindset Yup
H Humility I try to approach everything by 
how someone else is looking at 
it specifically andre because he 
is very specific with formatting 
and verbage often wanting me 
to overexplain where 
overexplanation should not be 
used. 
T Teamwork How am I supposed to 
approach this? 3. needs 
improvement overall. I expect 
my managers to have my back. I 
expect my product manager to 
have my back after validating 
my work. This is something 
that's a clear issue. I feel so 
disconnected from a team that 
is in mexico, from a manager 
that does not see the work I do 
on a daily basis in the office. My 
thoughts and where I come 
from. How can we build our 
team to work efficiently 
together rather than having one 
man run the entire operation 
while he is also the source of 
truth for the project. 
   What I'm Doing Page 155    
Status Report Update  (11th Aug -15th Aug): 
Began updating query logic for all queries related to reconciliation report•
Investigating an issue where report is showing different results for Finance BOM's throughput and crewing compared to what re ports showing. •
Working with Kay and Andre to finalize and document design changes from user review sessions and updated schema definitions•
Create new sprint cards for upcoming sprints focusing on legibility so that anyone on team is able to read acceptance criteri a and accurately close cards ••
Key Accomplishments   (11th Aug -15th Aug): 
Wrote the design guide for new iteration of component material numbers in reconciliation report.•
Published throughput and crewing pages to the report••
Upcoming Activities (18th Aug -22nd Aug): What are your upcoming tasks?  
Continue investigating issue with throughput and crewing where finance bom quantities aren't aligning with what's being seen in the report. 
This should be taken care of when the query logic is updated per Phuongs recommendations▪•
Continue updating and refining the design specifications document including new information and ready for dev components
This is dependent on conversation with Kay regarding new logic and dependent on Figma files being accessible and updated▪•
Update PowerBI with all new query logic dependent on Phuongs review •
Follow up with Ayesha and Phuong to see how we can best handle reporting for the reconciliation moving forward (any fields th at are not necessary for reconciliation to be 
done in the query, all other reporting logic to be handled in PowerBI•
Present in Steerco meeting current milestones, problems, etc. Regarding Audit reconciliation report••
Audit –Reconciliation Documentation Adjustments
Description
As a BOM Portal IT Product Owner, I want to update the current reconciliation documentation to accurately 
reflect the suggestions and query updates related to the reconciliation report. This will ensure that the 
documentation is up -to-date and reflects the latest changes, improvements, and any challenges faced while 
updating the query logic. 
Acceptance Criteria
Reconciliation documentation must be updated to include recent suggestions and query updates.•
Old documentation renamed with DEPRECEATED tag•
Updated documentation clearly differentiates between reconciliation vs reporting•
Updated documentation shared in SharePoint, linked to this card upon completion•
Updated query in appendix section•
Technical Detail
Gather all recent suggestions and query updates for the reconciliation report•
Ensure updates are reflected in new documentation•
Document uploaded to sharepoint and attached to Jira Card for review •8/12/2025
Tuesday, August 12, 2025 10:08 AM
   What I'm Doing Page 156    
Performance issues in GCP 
Controls teams pushing GCP not to be trusted for any financial reporting
Stabilization of GCP needs to be prioritized before reconciliation to be unblocked. 
In addition to blockers I am seeing in BOM Portals data schema, now issues in GCP itself are 
present, how to move forward. 8/19/25
Tuesday, August 19, 2025 9:36 AM
   What I'm Doing Page 157    
Please Write a card for me so that I can map the data flow from BOM_MySQL through the 
LegacyWebApp to SAP. 
I want to document and map the flow as outlined here: What is Data Mapping? Definition and Examples 
| Talend
I want to do this to figure out how data is fed from BOM_MySQL, what possible transformations take 
place as its in the code in legacy web app to send to sap. Include acceptance criteria, business 
statement/value, technical details
As a BOM Portal IT Product Owner I want to 
SAP-GCP data to define: 
Data layers, grains and facets mapped to BOM data
Data acquisition process (standardized by Tyson's guidelines)
Continue with separation of concerns between DML and reporting, given the OnLine Analytics nature of 
GCP and how data is governed (I would like to become more fluent on the full architecture that 
composes Data@Tyson per current state). 
Define accurate data sources and grains. Reassess the data documentation so far defined per past 
iterations. 
As to a broader plan on how this can be readdressed: 
Verify multiplicity configuration
I have seen some inconsistencies on the grain definition, plus there are limitations based on BOM 
Portal's internal data processing (e.g.: recipe based attributes can be corrupted based on mid -tier logic)
Conceptualize approach based on the data mapping across systems (i.e.: GCP -BOM & GCP -SAP sources)
Verify data reconciliation levels separated by layers (DISCLAIMER, upon the first demonstration of BOM 
entity existence, we might be able to reduce the report to a single process -and view -that concisely 
captures BOM deltas and inexistency visualization across systems)
BOM entities existence (Throughput and Crewing excluded)
BOM data reconciliation
Component comparison separated by 
Existence
Attributes 
Recipe data reconciliation 
Data relative to throughput, crewing and yields are defined at the Recipe level object in SAP. 
Pick up bi -weekly meetings with business to arrange progress -reiterative -
Title: Map Data Flow from BOM_MySQL through LegacyWebApp to SAP
Story Points: 8 
Description:
As a BOM Portal IT Product Owner, I want to document and map the flow of data from BOM_MySQL 
through the Legacy Web Application to SAP, so that I can understand how data is fed, what possible 
transformations occur in the application code, and ensure transparency and accuracy in reconciliation 
processes.
This includes:
Identifying the specific tables and fields in BOM_MySQL that are used.•
Working with a developer to trace how data is handled and transformed by the LegacyWebApp 
code before it is sent to SAP.•
Documenting the flow in a visual data mapping format consistent with best practices•
Business Value:
This mapping will provide visibility and alignment between BOM_MySQL, LegacyWebApp, and SAP, 8/20/2025
Wednesday, August 20, 2025 2:05 PM
   What I'm Doing Page 158    
This mapping will provide visibility and alignment between BOM_MySQL, LegacyWebApp, and SAP, 
ensuring that all stakeholders understand where data originates, how it is modified, and how it reaches 
SAP. It supports reconciliation accuracy, reduces risk of mismatches, and creates a foundation for future 
modernization of the BOM Portal ecosystem.
Acceptance Criteria:
A documented end -to-end mapping of data flow exists showing BOM_MySQL → LegacyWebApp 
→ SAP.•
Source fields in BOM_MySQL and their corresponding target fields in SAP are identified.•
Any transformation logic performed by the LegacyWebApp code is documented (e.g., padding, 
version shifts, conditional mappings).•
Documentation highlights potential pain points, risks, or undocumented logic.•
Technical Details:
Review BOM_MySQL schema and extract tables/fields relevant to BOMs, Recipes, and Materials.•
Trace code within the LegacyWebApp to identify transformation logic.•
Validate against SAP tables (e.g., STPO, MAST, PLMZ, C203 extract logic) to confirm alignment.•
Work with Andre, Fernanda and Tricia in working sessions •
Create another card for working sessions that will be done with tricia andre and Fernanda 
Create another card for working sessions that will be done with 
A visual data flow diagram (showing sources, transformations, targets).•
A tabular mapping document (source field → transformation → target field). •
   What I'm Doing Page 159    
BOM_MySQL Source Analysis
Points: 2
Description:
As a Product Owner, I want to identify all BOM_MySQL tables and fields that feed into SAP, so that the 
data origin, joins, and business context are clearly defined.
Acceptance Criteria:
List of all BOM_MySQL tables used in the data flow is compiled (e.g., RECIPE, PLANT, MATERIAL, 
STEP_COMPONENT).•
Field -level definitions documented (e.g., RECIPE_ID, BOM_TYPE, SAP_VERSION_NUM, 
MATERIAL_NUM).•
Mapping of joins between tables documented •
Constraints and formatting rules captured (e.g., MATERIAL_NUM padded to 18 digits before SAP 
alignment).•
Technical Details:
Document join logic between BOM_Portal tables•
Normalize for SAP Alignment.•
Document mappings in Excel document•
Document mapping of joins between tables•
BOM Portal Legacy Web App Analysis
Points: 4
Description:
As a Product Owner, I want to analyze how the Legacy Web App consumes BOM_MySQL data and 
transforms it before sending to SAP, so that I can document business rules, hidden transformations, and 
ensure alignment in reconciliation.
Acceptance Criteria:
Transformation logic performed by the Legacy Web App is documented •
Input/output fields between BOM_MySQL → LegacyWebApp → SAP are mapped. •
Hard -coded or undocumented rules are identified and logged.•
Publish Excel and notes to Sharepoint•
Technical Details:
Review Legacy Web App source code (C#/.NET) in GitLab.•
Trace key fields such as RECIPE_ID , MATERIAL_NUM , SAP_VERSION_NUM , and PLANT_CODE . •
Versioning adjustments: Production +31, Finance +01. •
Usage mapping: BOM Type = Production → BOM_USAGE=1 , Finance → BOM_USAGE=6 . •
Formatting rules: MATERIAL_NUM padded to 18 digits for SAP. •
Capture mappings and logic in an Excel spreadsheet for traceability.•
Review Legacy Web App code for references to BOM_Portal tables and fields.•
Trace and document transformation logic step by step.•
Create Excel sheet mapping BOM_MySQL fields → LegacyWebApp handling → SAP target. •
Validate findings with Andre (developer) in a review sessionStory 4 –Visual Data Flow Documentation
Points: 2
Description:
As a Product Owner, I want to document the data flow from BOM_MySQL → LegacyWebApp → SAP, so 
that stakeholders can better understand the pipeline
Acceptance Criteria:
Diagram exists showing source, transformation, and target layers.•
Includes field mappings and transformation notes.•
Risks/pain points visually annotated.•
Versioned in Confluence/Teams.•
Technical Details:
Use Lucidchart / Miro / Draw.io with Tyson’s data diagramming standards.•
Show table -level flow and key field mappings. •
Overlay transformation rules (e.g., +31 version offset ). •
Sub-Tasks:
Draft initial diagram (tables + arrows + key transformations).•
Review with Andre/Fernanda for accuracy.•
Publish in Confluence under “Data Mapping –BOM Portal Reconciliation.” •
Discussion 8/25/2025
Monday, August 25, 2025 9:05 AM
   What I'm Doing Page 160    
Validate findings with Andre (developer) in a review session•
SAP Target Analysis
Points: 2
Description:
As a Product Owner, I want to identify all SAP tables and fields related to the reconciliation, so that the 
data origin and joins are clearly defined 
Acceptance Criteria:
For each BOM_MySQL field, target SAP field identified (MATERIAL_NUM →MAST.MAT R) •
Validation confirms correct alignment. Mapping of joins between tables documented•
Gaps/mismatches logged as issues.•
Technical Details:
Query SAP BigQuery tables (MAST, STKO, STPO, PLMZ, MAPL, C203 extract).•
Match against BOM_MySQL keys: RECIPE_ID, PLANT_CODE, MATERIAL_NUM.•
Extract sample records from BOM_MySQL and corresponding SAP records.•
Document mappings in Excel document•
   What I'm Doing Page 161    
BOM_MySQL Source Analysis
Points: 3
Description:
As a Product Owner, I want to identify all BOM_MySQL tables and fields that feed into SAP, so that the 
data origin, joins, and business context are clearly defined.
Acceptance Criteria:
List of all BOM_MySQL tables used in the data flow is compiled (e.g., RECIPE, PLANT, MATERIAL, 
STEP_COMPONENT).•
Field -level definitions documented (e.g., RECIPE_ID, BOM_TYPE, SAP_VERSION_NUM, 
MATERIAL_NUM).•
Mapping of joins between tables documented •
Constraints and formatting rules captured (e.g., MATERIAL_NUM padded to 18 digits before SAP 
alignment).•
Technical Details:
Document join logic between BOM_Portal tables•
Normalize for SAP Alignment.•
Document mappings in Excel document•
Document mapping of joins between tables•
SAP Target Analysis
Points: 3
Description:
As a Product Owner, I want to identify all SAP tables and fields related to the reconciliation, so that the 
data origin and joins are clearly defined 
Acceptance Criteria:
For each BOM_MySQL field, target SAP field identified (MATERIAL_NUM →MAST.MAT R) •
Validation confirms correct alignment. Mapping of joins between tables documented•
Technical Details:Update acceptance critera to succinctly define the analysis of the submit model
Submit to SAP look into dynamo table for recipe submission
Mapping of joins between SAP tables reword
Understanding of the data granularity, layers, and how to identify 8/25/25
Monday, August 25, 2025 9:35 AM
   What I'm Doing Page 162    
Technical Details:
Identify SAP table attributes (MAST, STKO, STPO, PLMZ, MAPL).•
Match against BOM_MySQL key (eg. PLANT_CODE, MATERIAL_NUM, BOM_TYPE, BOM_VERSION)•
Document mappings of joins between SAP and BOM_MySQL in Excel document and uploaded to 
SharePoint•
BOM Portal Legacy Web App –Submit Model Analysis
Points: 4
Description:
As a Product Owner, I want to analyze how the Legacy Web App consumes BOM_MySQL data and 
transforms it before sending to SAP through submission, so that I can document business rules, hidden 
transformations, and ensure alignment in reconciliation.
Acceptance Criteria:
Transformation logic performed by the submit model in the Legacy Web App is documented •
Input/output fields between BOM_MySQL → LegacyWebApp → SAP are mapped. •
Hard -coded or undocumented rules are identified and logged.•
Updated excel documentation stored in SharePoint•
Technical Details:
Review Legacy Web App source code for the submit model (C#/.NET). •
Trace key fields such as RECIPE_ID , MATERIAL_NUM , SAP_VERSION_NUM , and PLANT_CODE . •
Analyze dynamo table for recipe submission model. •
Review Legacy Web App code for references to tables and fields.•
Trace and document transformation logic.•
Create Excel sheet mapping BOM_MySQL fields → LegacyWebApp handling → SAP target. •
Validate findings with Andre (developer) in a review session•
   What I'm Doing Page 163    
Status Report Update (25th Aug –29th Aug):
Continued reconciliation work between BOM Portal and SAP datasets.•
Identified need for more granularity from the business around key fields (e.g., scrap percentages).•
Created new sprint cards for the upcoming sprint, focusing on breaking down work into smaller, 
trackable portions.•
Key Accomplishments (25th Aug –29th Aug):
Began building a structured mapping between BOM Portal and SAP with clear definitions.
Specified source tables, join types, and transformation/normalization rules.○
Documented applied filters to standardize reconciliation scope (e.g., excluding inactive 
BOMs, phantom items, unchecked inventory points).○•
Upcoming Activities (2nd Sept –5th Sept):
Finalize and review the data mapping dictionary with product manager and business teams for 
validation.•
Prepare and share summary documentation/artifacts ahead of the business alignment session.•
Update backlog with detailed acceptance criteria for newly created sprint cards.•
BOM Portal Legacy Web App –Submit Model Analysis •
Points: 4 
Description: 
As a Product Owner, I want to analyze how the Legacy Web App consumes BOM_MySQL data and 
transforms it before sending to SAP through submission, so that I can document business rules, hidden 
transformations, and ensure alignment in reconciliation. 
Acceptance Criteria: 
Transformation logic performed by the submit model in the Legacy Web App is documented  •
Input/output fields between BOM_MySQL → LegacyWebApp → SAP are mapped. •
Hard -coded or undocumented rules are identified and logged. •
Updated excel documentation stored in SharePoint •
Technical Details: 
Review Legacy Web App source code for the submit model (C#/.NET).  •
Trace key fields such as RECIPE_ID, MATERIAL_NUM, SAP_VERSION_NUM, and PLANT_CODE. •
Analyze dynamo table for recipe submission model.  •
Review Legacy Web App code for references to tables and fields. •
Trace and document transformation logic. •
Create Excel sheet mapping BOM_MySQL fields → LegacyWebApp handling → SAP target. •
Validate findings with Andre (developer) in a review session •
Got it —here’s how you can split that story into two cards while keeping them clear, scoped, and 
testable.
Part 1: Legacy Web App Submit Model –Transformation Analysis9/2/2025
Tuesday, September 02, 2025 8:38 AM
   What I'm Doing Page 164    
Part 1: Legacy Web App Submit Model –Transformation Analysis
Points: 2
Description:
As a Product Owner, I want to analyze the transformation logic performed by the Legacy Web App 
submit model so that I can document business rules, hidden transformations, and ensure reconciliation 
alignment.
Acceptance Criteria:
Transformation logic performed by the submit model in the Legacy Web App is documented.•
Hard -coded or undocumented rules are identified and logged.•
Findings are validated with Andre in a review session.•
Technical Details:
Review Legacy Web App source code for the submit model (C#/.NET).•
Trace key fields such as RECIPE_ID, MATERIAL_NUM, SAP_VERSION_NUM, and PLANT_CODE.•
Analyze dynamo table for recipe submission model.•
Review Legacy Web App code for references to tables and fields.•
Trace and document transformation logic.•
Part 2: Legacy Web App Submit Model –Field Mapping Documentation
Points: 2
Description:
As a Product Owner, I want to map input and output fields between BOM_MySQL, Legacy Web App, 
and SAP so that I can maintain accurate documentation of system integrations.
Acceptance Criteria:
Input/output fields between BOM_MySQL → Legacy Web App → SAP are mapped. •
Updated Excel documentation is stored in SharePoint.•
Documentation reviewed and confirmed with Andre.•
Technical Details:
Create Excel sheet mapping BOM_MySQL fields → Legacy Web App handling → SAP target. •
Include notes on transformations and handling where applicable.•
Ensure mapping is consistent with reconciliation requirements.•
Do you want me to also add story IDs (e.g., 41xx series) and Jira -ready formatting so you can drop these 
straight into the backlog?
   What I'm Doing Page 165    
Product Owner Role
Master of decision making, facilitation, and analysis
Pillars of Product Ownership
Engagement
How to best interact with the team and keep focus on value
Value
Right software built and valuable to customer
Prioritizing product backlog 
Decision Making
Goals
Set teams priorities based on business value
What gets built, what level of depth and what order. 
Product owners 
On agile teams the focus on collaboration
Product owner interactions
Facilitating meet face to face collaborating 
Team Leader
Scrum master
Project Manager
Team lead
Guide team on product vision
Refining the backlog
Motivate the team
Developers
Interact in standup
Collaborate on product
Discuss scenarios
Feedback of feature
More interactions
Testing teams
Business analysts 
Subject Matter Experts
Other Product Owners
Product management
Share info about customers markets options, and technology
Customer
Understand their needs
Get as close to the customer as possible with goal of better product
Leaders
Collaborate on strategic alignment 
Product owner
Makes big or final decisions
Agile mindset
Quick decisions
Development team regularly 
Keep value at fron and discuss altAgile Product Owner Role: Foundations
Thursday, February 27, 2025 9:56 AM
   Product Owner Learning Page 166    
Define a Valuable Product
Agile Product Vision
PO Creates and Communicates, Drivers and goals 
Common Goals
Framework for dialogue
Team work
Product Vision
Target Group
Goals
Needs
Value 
Key Features
Key Considerations
Problem product Solves
Opportunity solution brings
For ____, will____ because____
Agile Product Roadmap
Know what direction we are going
Plan and prioritize
Focus on increments of value over time
Makes responsible decisions
Shows respect
Analyze a Roadmap's Value and Risk
Assess what features makes sense to deploy first from the perspective of customer value, org value, and risk
Value thinking and Analysis –Key skill
Value thinking –what feature are most value and what order
What are the customers basic needs1.
What will make them dissatisfied if absent2.
What features are not necessary, but create a more likeable product3.
What features do the customer don't know they want but add satisfaction4.
Understand Minimum Viable Product (MVP)
Balancing the cost, risk, and value
Making sure we don't over or under engineer
Deploy just enough quickly enough
MMF –minimum marketable feature
MMP –minimum marketable product
Minimum Viable Thinking –Keeps focus on whats marketable and valuable
The Initial Product Backlog
Prioritized list of deliverables.
Backlog comes from product owner decomposing road map
Refinement:
Prioritizing and analyzing the list to fill gaps and discuss
Higher priority = more detail needed, smaller increments of value
Agile Planning
Agile Planning Overview
Product Vision
   Product Owner Learning Page 167    
Product Vision
Roadmap
Release Plan 
Ensures right items to work on in valuable order
Agile product owner decides what and how to be built
Each release plan multiple sprints 
Levels of planning:
Product
Roadmap
Release
Sprint
Daily
PO creates sprints that focus on days activities
Development plan should have pace and flow
Traditional Planning Agile Planning
Project Scope Flexible Scope based on value, risk, cost, and time
Project plan, developed at the beginning, including
Scope•
Tasks•
Deadlines•Product vision and roadmap planned early
Agile Release Plan
Increments of value to customer
Each release is valuable to user
Inputs
Product vision
Roadmap
Dialogue with technical teams
Nothing in Agile is solid product owners must be comfy changing and adapting
Experimenting and Prototyping
Discover what we did not know; not a validation tool
Find high risk features 
Themes, Features, Epics, and User Stories
Theme –Group of Functionality
Features –Describe a group of functionality
Epics –Align with release map, roadmap, vision, break down into story. As a ____ I want to _____ so ____
Refine the Backlog
Ensure upcoming sprints have what they need to break down into stories
Backlog Refinement Meeting –every 2 weeks
Review stories
Determine roadmap and release plan
Placed into the backlog
Remove, add, change, for good of product
Prepare for next sprint
Examine estimates
Prioritize stories
Breakdown stories
Discuss acceptance criteria and scope for stories
Agile Product Owner Expectations
Day in Life
Meetings
   Product Owner Learning Page 168    
Meetings
Facilitation
Analysis
Relationship building
Negotiation
Review
Key Competencies
Relationship
Analysis
Decision Making 
Leadership and communication
Value analysis –Focuses on how features, story, sprint, benefit user and org
Facilitation –Ensure engagement and participation in meetings
Creates inclusive environments
Providing Strong Leadership
   Product Owner Learning Page 169    
https://www.linkedin.com/learning/agile -product -owner -role-techniques/welcome?u=95314802
Create a Meaningful Product Backlog
Product Visioning
Create, Communicate, Keep product vision in front of the team
Leads in product vision. Product owner is decision maker on vision. 
1. Vision Statement
Users and Customers
Key Features
Business Goals Aligned
Users and why do they use it
Customers and how they're impacted
2. Vision or product BOX
Teams create visual of product vision
3. Value Sliders
Show what is truly valued of product. 
What aspects impacting value the most
What the problem/opportunity is
Users and how they are impacted
Key assumptions and risk
Product Road mapping
Plans and prioritizes steps for delivering the product
Path should be centered on customer value
Deeper look at product vision at each piece
Use the Purpose Alignment Model
Partners –features on roadmap that we should partner with someone else on, not mission critical
Differentiating –features that help make us different from the competition
Parity –Features that are necessary and must be delivered
Who Cares –not needed features
Release Planning
Inputs:
Product Vision and Strategy
Roadmap
Epics and user stories
Acceptance criteria
Release Planning Team
Product Owner
Technical Lead
Other Members (Whoever else is needed)
Product owner ensures alignment with roadmap
Technical lead provides feasibility, constraints, and high -level estimates
Creation of release plan
Dependencies
Budget
Scheduling
Planning occurs 3 to 4 times per year and should be updated as needed
Product Backlog Refinement
Occurs every 1 -2 weeks
Helps plan upcoming sprints
Backlog is prioritized and analyzed
Draft acceptance criteria
Short, Mid, Longterm view with alignment
Engage participants
Prepare current backlog and user stories prior to meeting
Backlog Refinement Techniques
Breaking Down Features
Plan for short and Long -term
Feature –Describes a group of functionality
No focused on value until user perspective is elaborated on
Examine features from a user's point of view
User Story: As a ___, I want to ______, so that ______
Focus scope on item being worked on
Personas 
Persona –character that represents a user as a relateable person
Build empathy within team and help focus on a few typical archetypes of users
Help build shared understanding and drive decisions
Research and observe "typical" user, then user teams and create personas as a team
Primary –Product satisfies all needs and goals vs Secondary Personas –product satisfies most of needs 
Agile Product Ownership Techniques
Wednesday, September 03, 2025 2:48 PM
   Product Owner Learning Page 170    
Persona –character that represents a user as a relateable person
Build empathy within team and help focus on a few typical archetypes of users
Help build shared understanding and drive decisions
Research and observe "typical" user, then user teams and create personas as a team
Primary –Product satisfies all needs and goals vs Secondary Personas –product satisfies most of needs 
with some adjustments
Tertiary personas –not focus of product supplementary users
Values the most important users of the product
User Stories
Common technique to help teams understand what they're building functionally from a user perspective
As a ____, I want to ____ so that _____
Who, What, Why
Independent –each story should be able to be implemented on its own
Negotiable –enough detail, flexibility to evolve and discuss
Valuable –must be valuable to end user 
Estimable –estimate and have enough detail to move forward
Small –Needs to be small enough, to consume, commit
Testable –testable from user perspective
Technical User Stories –reframe tasks to show business value
Ask why its important, understand value. 
Technical User Story: In order to _____, we need to ______ so that ______
Story Maps
Organizes user stories in visual format
Take all stories and put them in sequence of how a customer uses the product. Left to right, vertical 
columns provide detail under higher level story
Big picture visual
Helps see how all stories relate and identification of gaps in scope
Story Slicing and Splitting
Story Slicing –Splitting user stories into smaller pieces of value
Splitting up stories til they become small enough that they are feasible for the length of the sprint
Strategies:
User role or persona
Business rules
Scenarios
Process or workflow steps 
Data entered by user
Acceptance Criteria
Conditions that tell us when the user story is working as intended and satisfying the customer. 
PO decides acceptance criteria
Written from user's point of view
Definition of success from a user perspective
List of statements with clear results
Non functional requirements
10 statements at most 
User Story Workshop
Hands -on meeting where the team brainstorms and writes user stories for the product. 
Product Vision –why the product and stories matter
Road map features –specific order and shows where value is in features
Personas –review with team update changes
Lesson on user stories, what they look like, etc. 
5 people max, participants selected on relevancy
1. Brainstorm stories for most important road map and persona features
2. one story per card, individually, for all features
3. Create a story map with user stories
4. Determine minimum viable product (MVP) and acceptance criteria
Product Backlog Prioritization
Prioritizations Overview
Backlog Inputs
Product Vision
Road Map
Release Plan
Funnel approach: What item will provide values to bigger goals
Product Owners priority in chunks, team works to split items into smaller chunks and prioritize again
Prioritization Techniques
Forced Ranking –rank item in list 1.
Grouping/Categories -categorizes items into groups 2.
Voting –prioritizing through the opinions of select few 3.
Buy a feature –gives stakeholders amount of money they socialize and select the features 
together for the product4.
Forced Ranking Prioritization
Top 10 priorities in near future and top 10 that are further out should be ranked
Funnel backlog, 10 items of priority, 10 items later on
Priorities change, prioritization should be clean and easy
   Product Owner Learning Page 171    
together for the product
Forced Ranking Prioritization
Top 10 priorities in near future and top 10 that are further out should be ranked
Funnel backlog, 10 items of priority, 10 items later on
Priorities change, prioritization should be clean and easy
We need to align to business priorities and strategic alignment
Let the team discuss design options/ rewrite stories, etc
No more than 8 small groups when forced ranking
Ask to summarize issue for larger group as conflicts arrise. 
Consider using personas for forced ranking –each group represent persona representing what relates to 
them
Categorization/Grouping Prioritization
Team together shared understanding about priorities
Group items into high, medium, low,
Each item is its own card. 3 -5 people group. 
Focus and prep on what categories mean., 
High Items –Must be part of product or release
Medium items –nice to have will get us further
Low items -don’t need, nice to have
MOSCOW Categorization
Must Have
O
Should Have
Could Have
O
Wont have 
Remove low priority items 
Voting Prioritization
Technicquye that gathers team to discuss and vote on priorities
Vote on no more than 10 items
Offer context about the items 
Set up voting criteria
Focus on user group goals of release from user perspective
What features align to the product best
Voting Process
How many items will be voted on?
How many votes per person?
How many votes can each person place for each item?
   Product Owner Learning Page 172    
How many votes can each person place for each item?
Is the voting silent or with discussion?
Can voters change votes? 
Are votes anonymous?
How much time to complete voting? 
What will results be used for?
Will team discuss results when finished? 
Buy a Feature
Create a list of stories (10 -30 items)
Assign a guess price to each item
Determine how much money to give participants 
Only distribute 40 to 70% of money to buy everything
Choose a banker
Track purchases on a visual board. 
Considerations:
Will they be allowed to buy items alone?
Will they be able to give partial funds for the item?
Do they need to work together to buy an item?
How they will interact with banker?
How will they know what's purchased and what's left? 
Key Concepts for Agile Teams
Definition of Ready
What makes team successful and prevents rework
How team determines if they're readfy to move forward
User Stories:
If user stories ready to be brought to sprint
Team updates readiness items together
Is the value well articulated
Team agreement to story and sprint. See excersice file of ready
Sets consistent team expectations
Reduces spin on requirements
Keeps team accountable. 
Definition of Done
How the team measures if story or backlog item is complete
Develops accountabiljity and expectations
List of criteria by team for team and stakeholders
Defining what it takes to get the story done right, not just the fastest way which comes with risks
Code being reviewed
Documentation complete
Testing is done
See exercise files. 
Definition serves as guideline to estimate during sprint planning
Ask more questions think about overall picture 
Technical Debt
Fast and Furious shortcutting roadmap
Rework and pain
Shortcuts that impact future sprints
Slows pace and velocity
Minimizing Technical Debt
1. Have a strong product vision and road map the team understands
2. Create a meaningful definition of done
Accumulating will impact PO in future product flexibility, mod, architecture
Longer time to market for add -on features. 
Dealing with Technical Debt
1. Identify important functions and estimate enough time to build quality features
2. Allocate points to address technical debt for each sprint 
Agile Meetings and the Product Owner
Overview of PO role in Agile Ceremonies
Product Owner –Active and participant in Agile meetings 
Daily Standup
Sprint Planning
Sprint Review
Sprint Retrospective
When we ignore ceremonies we must align 
Agile ceremonies do not replace dialogue between team members 
Manage process, provide context, accountability, direction for teams to get to work
Product Owner is Critical for these meetings. 
Estimating
Product Owner has a large stake in estimating 
Minimum Viable Product (only enough and just enough)
Brings clarity to goals, acceptance criteria, options
   Product Owner Learning Page 173    
Brings clarity to goals, acceptance criteria, options
Estimates to what actually is needed
Estimating
Backlog > more uncertain
Release Plan > more uncertain
Road Map > More uncertain
Upcoming Sprint > More detailed
Based on the teams pace from previous sprints, each team has their own velocity.
Relative Sizing 
Relative comparables 
Points
Pre-Estimating Session
Test Scenarios
Alternative Designs
Story Splitting
Analysis Models
Planning Poker –team members estimate story size then share with group and discuss 
Focus on largest and smallest estimates
Sprint Planning Meeting
Upcoming Sprint
Clarifies what will be built 
Teams estimates and plans and commits to the work
This goal derives the work to be done for the sprint
Definiton of ready comes in play
Output
Goal
Backlog
2-week spring 2 -4 hours
Daily Standup
15 minute meeting
Product Owner attends
Each person discusses progress toward sprint goal
The work planned for the day
Any barriers
Identify barriers and progress issues
Use language the entire team understands
Identify who will deal with barriers
Make sure its collaborative, self -directive. 
Sprint Review
Inspect and Adapt –End of sprint
Demo of whats accomplished
Informal, shows value of sprint goal
PO recieves feedback
Retrospectives
Meeting for team to reflect and improve 
Happens after each sprint
Continuous improvement
Results in action items for next sprints for practices
PO helps with decision making, feedback
Ensure team understands goals, strategy, etc
   Product Owner Learning Page 174    
Product Owners
Decision Maker
Productivity Max
Strategic
Customer -oriented
Key Functions
Cust Relationship
Roadmapping
Backlog Refinemenet
Training & Development
General Administration
Documentation
Customer Relationship
Kick-Off Meetings
Goal: Roles, responsibilities, ceremonies
Impact of requirement changes on sprints
Output: Project sponsor clarity
Key features
3 sprints ahead planned out
One on Ones
Project Manager meeting 
Project updates
Gather detailed requirements
Demonstrate demos 
Show how requirements will impact timeline or change backlog
Output:
Refined story cards
Testing and validation
Steering Committees
Provide high level to senior leadership
Demonstrate working software for key features
Alignment on project priorities and timeline
Pule check on meeting requirements
Roadmap Creation
Product of kick -off meeting
Quarterly Planning
Project name, features 
Assess the timeline high overview
Lead engineer/software/architect consulted
Backlog Refinement
3 Sprints Planned 
Customer Developer Product Owner
Not in backlog refinement Don't make cards Don't need cards in the sprint
Ask for story point estimates Do need to create cards aligned to priorities
Technical details Engage customer and developer
Sprint Planning
Frequency Every Friday (no longer than 30 minutes)
All cards ready for sprint
Dev and analyst ask questions about their cards that they have already reviewed
General Administration
Status Updates
Change Requests
Sponsor Approvals
Documentation
Key requirements in functional spec document
Keep track of results in ALMExplain the model, responsibility, product owners for all communication, dev 
Team should not be involved as this leads to inefficiencyCustomer Journey Map –Finance Analyst
Target Customer: Finance Analyst
Problem: Ensure BOM data is accurate between SAP and BOM Portal for costing and reporting.
Main Flow (Top Lane –Finance Analyst)
Gather Reports → 1.
Identify Discrepancies → 2.
Investigate Issues → 3.
Escalate for Support → 4.
Finalize Reporting5.
Supporting Relationships (Bottom Lane –Others)
Operations Planner : Provides plant -level data or clarifies component assignments. •
IT/Support Team : Assists when discrepancies cannot be resolved manually. •
Finance Manager/Auditors : Consume final reports and require audit -ready accuracy. •
Technical Systems Used
SAP•
BOM Portal•
Excel•
Email & Ticketing System•
Interactions
Pulling reports from SAP/BOM Portal•
Emailing/calling Operations to verify•
Opening IT tickets for support•
Submitting reports to management/auditors•
 To make this visual (like the recruiter example you uploaded):
Place the Finance Analyst steps in a row across the top (boxes with arrows connecting them). •
Below, place Operations, IT, and Auditors as supporting roles, with arrows up/down showing when the 
Analyst interacts with them.•
Add small callouts under each step for the systems used (e.g., SAP, Excel, Ticketing). •How to Draw the Journey Map (Step by Step)
Think of the recruiter example diagram you shared and mirror that structure:
Create two horizontal swimlanes (rows): 1.
Top row = Finance Analyst (main actor) •
Bottom row = Supporting Roles (Operations, IT, Finance Manager/Auditors) •
Draw boxes for each step in the top row : 2.
“Gather Reports” → “Identify Discrepancies” → “Investigate Issues” → “Escalate for Support” → 
“ inalize Reporting”•
Connect each box with arrows showing the flow left to right.•
Under each relevant step, connect supporting roles : 3.
 rom “Investigate Issues,” draw a dashed arrow down to Operations Planner . •
 rom “Escalate for Support,” draw a dashed arrow down to IT/Support Team . •
 rom “ inalize Reporting,” draw a dashed arrow down to Finance Manager/Auditors . •
Add annotations under the boxes : 4.
Example: Under “Gather Reports,” write “Systems: SAP, BOM Portal, Excel.”•
Under “Escalate for Support,” add “Interaction: Ticketing System, Email.”•
Use colors/shapes for clarity : 5.
Rectangles (rounded) = main steps.•
Ellipses = supporting roles.•
Solid arrows = main flow.•
Dashed arrows = relationships/interactions.•Mastering Agile Product Owner Role
Tuesday, April 22, 2025 9:54 AM
   Product Owner Learning Page 175    
1. Customer & Consumer Obsession
Proof Points•
Reference the Steering Committee cadence you helped establish —you can cite frequency (e.g., “every 
other month”) and attendance (“BU leadership from  inance and Operations”).•
Call out  en McCreary’s shout -out on May 2nd as a third -party validation. •
Mention backlog refinement sessions you led with Product Managers —ideally reference a date or 
specific deliverable (e.g., prioritization for BOM Portal).•
2. Data & Digital
Proof Points•
Show where you outlined role clarity : Did you send or request a formal role responsibility document? 
Have the email or Teams chat handy.•
Continuous improvement example: AI chatbot proposal for BOM Portal —describe when you 
presented it and to whom.•
Cite adoption: “80% of inflight programs in  IT now using Agile methodology” —have a Steering 
Committee deck or JIRA data as backup.•
3. Operational Excellence
Proof Points•
Highlight specific projects: BOM Portal reconciliation queries, SAP Upgrade milestones.•
Point to metrics: Jira velocity reports, project finance reviews (95% adherence).•
Be ready to say what was delivered on time and what audit remediations were closed . •
4. Team Member Development
Proof Points•
Certification: ITF+ completion (have certificate or transcript). •
Training: 10+ Workday trainings, LinkedIn Learning courses (list top 2 with relevance). •
Application: Show where your SQL or spec work was directly used in validation meetings or dashboards.•
Growth: Mention your enrollment in the Product Management certificate and how it ties into your FY26 
development.•
5. Team Member Engagement
Proof Points•
Name the events you joined (Ops & EFIT quarterly events, Analyst/PO Community of Practice).•
Mention informal relationship -building —coffee/lunch with team members —and why it mattered 
(collaboration, smoother handoffs).•
If you recognized peers in Cultivate, mention that specifically.•
RIGHT Behaviors
Frame each with a short story :
Results→ “When faced with restricted table access in GCP, I still delivered reconciliation queries that •Review
Friday, September 05, 2025 3:02 PM
   Performance Page 176    
Results→ “When faced with restricted table access in GCP, I still delivered reconciliation queries that 
supported E I validation sessions.”•
Innovate → “I built a reusable reconciliation query framework in BigQuery linked to Power BI —now 
applied across three reporting layers.”•
Growth Mindset → “I explored SAP routing tables and applied those learnings directly to component 
reconciliation models.”•
Humility→ “I asked Phuong to present his SQL approaches first before layering in my ideas —helped us 
align as a team.”•
Teamwork → “Partnered with Ayesha to align SQL outputs with Power BI design, ensuring both backend 
accuracy and business usability.”•
✅Pro Tip for the meeting :
Have a one-page crib sheet with:
Dates of big deliverables•
Names of stakeholders who validated or recognized you•
Training/certification completions•
1–2 metrics per goal (e.g., 95% adherence, 80% Agile adoption, >60% satisfaction score)•
That way, when your boss presses for evidence, you can cite specifics fast.
   Performance Page 177    
1. Core Message You Need to Land
 ou’ve delivered results (BOM –SAP reconciliation, SQL queries, Power BI specs, UX documentation). •
 ou’ve exceeded expectations in areas that go beyond a PO I (analysis, SQL, reporting). •
There’s been role confusion (PO vs PM vs Manager), and you’re asking for clarity, boundaries, and 
growth path to PO II .•
 ou’re not rejecting the extra work —you want it recognized and tied to your career progression , not 
penalizing your PO performance review.•
Your anchor statement:
“I want to ensure my performance is measured against agreed -upon PO responsibilities, while also 
making sure the additional work I’ve taken on is recognized as growth and contribution —not a baseline 
expectation.”
2. Anticipated Pushbacks & How to Respond
Pushback 1: “Why didn’t you speak up sooner?”
Response: “I did raise it, but often was told it would be handled later. I’m still learning how to navigate 
corporate processes, but I see this as the right time to establish clear boundaries going forward.”•
Pushback 2: “But Andre already handles backlog, roadmap, etc.”
Response: “Exactly —and that’s the disconnect. I want clarity on where PO starts and PM ends. Agile 
best practices show PO owns backlog, acceptance criteria, sprint work. PM owns roadmap. I’d like us to 
align on what applies here.”•
Pushback 3: “Why should we document role boundaries?”
Response: “Because without documented alignment, we risk tasks slipping or being duplicated. Clear 
ownership protects deliverables, accountability, and ensures my performance is fairly measured.”•
3. Quick Reference Talking Points
Role Clarity
PO I scope (from Tyson IT Job Architecture): backlog management, story writing, sprint ceremonies, 
translating requirements, continuous improvement.•
 ou’ve often been redirected away from backlog/acceptance criteria work.•
Contributions Beyond PO I
SAP/BOM reconciliation SQL development.•
Power BI design + data model reviews.•
Functional specifications + UI/UX requirements.•
Acted as bridge between analysts, business, and devs.•
What You Need
Documented responsibilities for PO, PM, Manager. •
Agreement on scope —what’s permanent vs growth/training. •
Training plan for PO II progression. •
Consistent involvement in UX/UI & stakeholder meetings. •
Feedback cadence (regular check -ins). •Assessment
Friday, September 05, 2025 3:12 PM
   Performance Page 178    
Growth Mindset Conversation
Performance Assessment
Follow Through on expectations –What is the expectation?
Cross -funcitonal/team of contact –Doug comes directly to me? 
Opportunities in Learning -
Build confidence and clarity in communication -
Right behaviors message –consistent delivery. 
Product Owner Role are clear???
Working together on Product Owner Responsibilities. 
Performance Improvement Plan Setup for me 
They are putting me on Performance Improvement Plan. 
Performance Incentive Planning 
Assigned Support for architect working directly with architect
Performance –Step forward
45 Day improvement Evaluation 
Raise –Expectations of the role 
Potentially Fired
Right On -
Pre-PIP performance 
PP General LedgerReview
Friday, September 05, 2025 3:16 PM
   Performance Page 179    
I was recently given a PIP and I want to fight it use all the information I'm 
giving you and tell me what I need to do. My manager also said just a week 
before the PIP 
What I was Given:
Performance Goals
Goal Description
Goal Description
Customer & Consumer Obsession : Steering Committees: All FY25 AOP projects are 
represented in Steering Committees that involve functional BU leadership. Vendor of 
Choice, consume more footprint with our business partners, move Deloitte and other 
consultants out of the business. 
Key Actions & Measurements
Key Actions & Measurements
•Strengthen Partnership with Business by providing the appropriate project review cadence and 
touchpoints throughout the year to stay closely connected with business partners to improve 
relationships, gain new business, and drive technology strategy for 24 -month roadmap.
•Leverage Product Owner / Product Manager roles with in -person meetings to prioritize backlog 
demand, complete quarterly planning cycles, and refine sprint plans.
•Routine 1:1 with Product Managers
•100% of AOP projects reviewed in SC meetings
•>=60% customer satisfaction score for each functional team
Due Date
Due Date
09/30/2025
Category
Category
Customer & Consumer Obsession
Status
Status
Completed
Completed On
Completed On
08/29/2025
History
Goal Description
Goal Description
Data & Digital: Influence and modify the methodology IT and FIT utilizes to implement 
programs. Utilization of Agile methodology vs Waterfall.
Key Actions & Measurements
Key Actions & Measurements
•Participate in establishing dedicated FIT Finance scrum teams. Work to round out Agile across 
SAP development. Work with continuous improvement mindset using Agile ceremonies to 
improve delivery. 
•Understand Agile Framework Product Manager, Product Owner, Scrum Master, and Analyst 
responsibilities. Clearly communicate and execute agile operating model to other IT teams and 
business partners.
•Bi-weekly program review. 
•80% inflight programs in FIT utilize agile methodology 
•1 Continuous Improvement Idea
•Defined Roadmaps for each Product Team
-Ensure on -time project delivery (95%+); no change requests without council approval
Due Date
Due Date
09/30/2025
Category
Category
Operational Excellence
Status
Status
Completed
Completed On
Completed On
08/29/2025
History
Goal Description
Goal Description
Operational Excellence: Manage IT budget project budget to <= 1% of plan. Deliver AOP 
and departmental metrics. Adhere to company policies, controls and audit remediation 
requirements.
Key Actions & Measurements
Key Actions & Measurements
•Complete project deliverables according to project milestones to ensure project 
implementations meet original date and avoid delays.
•Deliver FY25 AOP / Operating Plan according to business and IT budget not to exceed 1% over 
the plan.
•Improve delivery efficiencies demonstrated through Jira velocity / output reports.
•Deliver the strategic Finance Big Rocks (BOM Portal, Sku Profitability, EAP Optimization, Vertex 
Upgrade, Anaplan, SAP Upgrade, Working Capital, Material Ledger) according to plan for time, 
cost, and quality.
•Baseline date vs Actual implementation date
•Project finance review with 95% adherence 
-Remediate all audit findings timely in adherence with audit delivery date.
-Steward capital resources and deliver prioritized projects that promote positive capital 
investments.
Due Date
Due Date
09/30/2025
Category
Category
Operational Excellence
Status
Status
Completed
Completed On
Completed On
08/29/2025
History
Goal Description
Goal Description
Team Member Development : Team members can expand their capabilities per their 
grade level and role in FY25. 
Key Actions & Measurements
Key Actions & Measurements
•Complete learning development activities which includes four learning activities (one per 
quarter) and two EID&B activities (first by end of Q2 and second by end of Q4).
•Initiate, progress or complete certification (Lean Six Sigma, Agile / PMP, CCBA, Graduate 
Program via Guild) per job grade level and role in FY25.
•Soft Skills Development: participate in activities that facilitate soft skill development including 
but not limited to;
Creating concise and visually appealing presentations
Presenting product / project work at Strategy & Ops All Hands, Staff, Extended Staff, 
SteerCo, Digital Bytes, Tech Huddles. 
Problem solving or conflict resolution for win -win outcomes (The Five Whys) 
Increase process or technical acumen within Tyson (to be tailored)? 
Due Date
Due Date
09/30/2025
Category
Category
Team Member Development
StatusI hear you, Greg —that’s a tough spot.  rom what you’ve shared, the PIP document shows a mismatch: 
on one side, your completed FY25 goals and RIGHT behaviors self -evaluation paint a picture of strong 
results, growth, and recognition; on the other, your manager’s write -up in the PIP cites speed, 
ownership, and proactivity issues.
If your aim is to prove the PIP is wrong or unfair , the best path forward is to approach this like a 
structured rebuttal, with evidence and professionalism (not just emotion). Here’s how you can tackle it:
1. Frame Your Position
Start with respect: acknowledge receipt of the PIP and that you take it seriously.•
State clearly that you disagree with certain points because they don’t align with your actual 
performance and documented outcomes.•
2. Gather Evidence
Pull together hard proof from FY25:
Completed Goals : Show that all your official goals (Customer & Consumer Obsession, Data & Digital, 
Operational Excellence, Development, Engagement) were completed earlyand marked as “Completed” 
in the system.•
Recognition : Reference Ken McCreary’s May 2 shout -out, SteerCo presentations, or any stakeholder 
feedback.•
Deliverables : Provide Jira ticket numbers, SQL models, functional specs, or Power BI outputs you 
authored.•
Certifications & Training : ITF+ certification, 10+ Workday trainings, LinkedIn Learning, and Product 
Management certificate enrollment.•
Engagement : Participation in EFIT events, Community of Practice, etc. •
3. Contrast Against PIP Claims
Take each area where your manager said you’re underperforming and rebut it with specific 
counterexamples:
Speed of Delivery
Manager says: missed deadlines, low task completion.•
Your counter: show on-time completion of FY25 AOP deliverables , early completion dates (08/29/25 vs. 
09/30/25 deadlines), and working SQL reconciliations validated in business sessions.•
Acknowledge: yes, some exploratory tickets shifted, but emphasize that exploration was necessary due 
to restricted GCP access and poor documentation . That context should have been recognized.•
Product Owner Responsibilities
Manager says: backlog not maintained, not validating stories.•
Your counter: reference your role in facilitating backlog refinement with Andre, creating functional 
specs, validating data models with Ayesha, and translating business survey feedback (Angelica’s 
responses) into actionable backlog items.•
Emphasize your proactive alignment with Agile frameworks and your request for role clarity 
documentation (to avoid overlap between PO/PM/Analyst).•
Adaptability & Growth
Manager says: avoids new tasks, passive.•
Your counter: list how you took on SAP table exploration, routing/operations mapping, Power BI 
collaboration, and professional certifications —all outside your initial reconciliation scope.•
Show examples of adapting to shifting ownership expectations (e.g., when reconciliation epics moved 
multiple times).•
Proactivity & Self -Learning
Manager says: relies too much on others, misses ownership.•
Your counter: show initiatives you led without being asked —reconciliation query frameworks in 
BigQuery, functional spec drafts, requirement gathering notes, training documentation, survey design 
for Ann & Doug, etc.•
4. Leverage the Discrepancy
Your performance record shows:
Exceeded FY25 goals (officially rated). •
Leading RIGHT behaviors (officially rated). •
Yet the PIP paints the opposite picture. That contradiction is your strongest defense: how can someone 
exceed goals and lead in RIGHT behaviors, but simultaneously be underperforming enough to justify a 
PIP?
5. Next Steps
Draft a written rebuttal with evidence attached (Jira tickets, emails, SteerCo decks, certifications). •
Ask for an HR-mediated meeting to review the discrepancies. •
Keep tone factual and professional: frame this as “misalignment in perception vs. documented 
outcomes.”•
 Would you like me to draft a rebuttal letter/email that you can send to HR/your manager, 
structured around these points? That way, you’ll have a polished response showing evidence and 
professionalism.
Performance Improvement Plan
Monday, September 15, 2025 2:04 PM
   Performance Page 180    
Status
Status
Completed
Completed On
Completed On
08/28/2025
History
Goal Description
Goal Description
Team Member Engagement: Make Tyson Foods a great place to work. Ensure our team 
members are happy working at Tyson Foods. Reduce unwanted attrition (voluntary) to 
sustainable levels. 
Key Actions & Measurements
Key Actions & Measurements
•Fun: Conduct monthly, quarterly and yearly events with all Ops & EFIT team members
•Participate in 4 events (IMPACT,  BRG, WIT, IT Picnic etc). in FY25
•Attend at least 4 Ops & EFIT or individual team building / service projects
-Using Cultivate (BI Worldwide) to recognize team members in the organization
•Engagement survey score greater than IT & Corporate avg
•Manage satisfaction score >=80%
•Attrition below IT average
Due Date
Due Date
09/30/2025
Category
Category
Team Member Development
Status
Status
Completed
Completed On
Completed On
08/29/2025
History
Employee Summary
Rating
Rating
Exceeded goals
Rating Description
Rating Description
Achieved all goals and exceeded expectations on several. Delivered strong results with 
notable impact or efficiency beyond what was required.
Comment
Comment
FY25 Goal Achievement Summary
Customer & Consumer Obsession
I established a consistent review cadence with business unit leadership, holding regular 
alignment and backlog prioritization sessions that strengthened trust with stakeholders and 
team members. As a result, business partners expressed high satisfaction and appreciation for 
my collaboration. Notably, I received a public shout -out from the business (Ken McCreary) on 
May 2nd recognizing my contributions.
Data & Digital
By clearly communicating the responsibilities of Managers, Product Managers, Product 
Owners, Scrum Masters, and Analysts, I reinforced Tyson’s Agile operating model across IT. 
To further strengthen accountability, I requested a formal document aligning role 
responsibilities to enable consistent performance tracking across the team. I also introduced 
forward -looking continuous improvement ideas, including the proposal for an AI -powered 
chatbot for the BOM Portal, designed to improve efficiency and user support.
Operational Excellence
I delivered against FY25 commitments by ensuring project milestones for the BOM Portal and 
SAP Upgrade were achieved. I supported compliance by aligning with audit remediation 
requirements and adhering to company policies and controls. These efforts helped maintain 
disciplined execution and kept high -priority initiatives, such as the BOM Portal and SAP 
reconciliation reporting, on track.
Team Member Development
I prioritized professional growth through certifications, structured trainings, and practical 
application. I completed my ITF+ certification , which enhanced my technical foundation and 
directly improved my ability to design robust, performance -optimized SQL queries for BOM 
Portal reconciliation and SAP analysis. I also began pursuing a Product Management 
certificate to strengthen my strategic and leadership capabilities. In addition, I completed 10+ 
Workday trainings and multiple LinkedIn Learning courses , broadening both technical and 
business acumen.
I consistently attended knowledge transfer (KT) sessions led by my Product Manager and 
actively assisted in KT sessions with developers, ensuring requirements were clearly 
understood and knowledge was shared effectively. I applied my development learnings to 
evolve both technical and soft skills —creating stronger SQL deliverables, presenting in SteerCos 
with confidence and clarity, and applying structured problem -solving techniques such as the Five 
Whys in cross -functional work. These activities expanded my technical expertise, 
strengthened communication and facilitation skills, and positioned me to take on greater 
responsibility as a Product Owner while progressing toward long -term product management 
leadership roles.
Team Member Engagement
I contributed to a positive team culture by actively participating in quarterly Ops & EFIT events 
and other Tyson engagement activities. I joined the Analyst/Product Owner Community of 
Practice. In addition, I built stronger connections outside of formal programs by spending time 
with colleagues over coffee, lunch, or drinks, which help foster collaboration and camaraderie.
RIGHT Behaviors
5 items
CompetencySort and filter 
columnDescriptionSort and filter column
Results Results
Deliver on a measurable plan.
Key Actions:
Delivers exceptional results for customers and consumers.
Meets and exceeds goals even in challenging circumstances.
Adapts processes to achieve higher levels of performance, demonstrating 
resilience and success.
Consistently Demonstrates a bias for action.
Innovate Innovate
Be curious and build for the future.
Key Actions:
Cultivates a dynamic environment through open debate and experimentation.
Takes bold, swift action, and leverages digitalization for novel ideas and 
positive change.
Navigates internal and external factors to drive continuous improvement.
Aligns to and champions the organization's strategic vision.
Growth Mindset Growth Mindset
Learn, adapt and develop others
Key Actions:
Continuously learning and applying it to their work
Understands and recognizes unique strengths, development areas, and 
motivations, in self and others.
Embraces challenge as an opportunity to learn and grow.
Leverages all available resources and tools to maximize the full potential of a 
career at Tyson.
Humility Humility
Operate with integrity and respect
Key Actions:
Creates space for others' ideas and embraces differences.
Values the contributions and potential of all team members
Demonstrates empathy and prioritizes understanding and support.
Cultivates a humble, collaborative, and inclusive work culture that fosters 
belonging.
Teamwork Teamwork
Collaborate as One inclusive Tyson
Key Actions:
   Performance Page 181    
Key Actions:
Builds strong relationships with peers and partners across the enterprise.
Collaborates with others to achieve operational excellence.
Encourages diverse viewpoints by seeking first to understand.
Adjusts influence techniques based on the situation to reach shared goals.
Employee Summary
Rating
Rating
Leading
Rating Description
Rating Description
Demonstrates RIGHT behaviors above expectations; often influences others. Proactively 
builds culture, contributes beyond role, and positively shapes team dynamics.
Comment
Comment
RIGHT Behaviors –Self-Evaluation Responses
Results–Deliver on a measurable plan
How did I deliver exceptional results for customers and consumers?
I ensured that reconciliation between SAP and the BOM Portal maintained accuracy at the 
component level, which directly impacts costing and operational planning. By validating key 
fields, I helped the business trust the data that underpins financial reporting and consumer 
pricing.
How did I meet or exceed goals, even in challenging circumstances?
Despite limited documentation and restricted table access in GCP, I consistently delivered 
reconciliation queries, specifications, and Power BI reporting that moved the EFI epic forward. 
I adapted to changes in scope and ownership expectations, yet still produced results that were 
used in business validation sessions.
How did I adapt processes to achieve higher performance and demonstrate resilience?
I improved reconciliation workflows by normalizing SAP and BOM data structures (e.g., 
material number padding, version adjustments), reducing the manual rework needed for 
comparisons. This process resilience allowed the team to move faster while ensuring data 
alignment across systems.
How did I show a consistent bias for action?
I regularly took initiative in drafting SQL models, functional specs, and JIRA stories before 
being asked, ensuring that meetings with stakeholders were productive. My proactive 
approach helped keep momentum when business alignment was still being defined.
Innovate –Be curious and build for the future
How did I cultivate a dynamic environment through open debate and experimentation?
I facilitated open discussions with Andre, Fern, Phuong, and Ayesha to test different SQL 
reconciliation methods, weighing pros/cons of component -level vs. header -level reporting. These 
experiments allowed us to validate the most efficient and scalable approach.
How did I take bold, swift action, or leverage digitalization to create positive change?
I designed a scalable reconciliation query framework in BigQuery that can be reused for multiple 
comparison layers (header, operations, component). By building this in GCP and linking it to Power 
BI, I created digitalized solutions. 
How did I navigate internal and external factors to drive continuous improvement?
When faced with access restrictions (e.g., policy tags on plantbom or restricted_confidential tables), I 
coordinated with DICE and data governance to ensure compliance while still progressing the 
reconciliation initiative.
How did I align my work to and champion Tyson’s strategic vision?
My reconciliation work directly supports Tyson’s vision of becoming more data -driven, accurate, and 
efficient. By ensuring BOM Portal and SAP stay aligned, I helped secure the integrity of financial 
data that supports decision -making at an enterprise scale.
Growth Mindset –Learn, adapt, and develop others
How did I continuously learn and apply new knowledge to my work?
I deepened my SAP knowledge by exploring tables for routing and operations along with C203 
transaction mappings, then directly applied that learning to BigQuery models. I also expanded my 
skills in Power BI design, collaborating closely with Ayesha to ensure data flows were usable.
How did I recognize and support the unique strengths of others?
I leaned on Ayesha’s Power BI design strengths and provided her with SQL outputs structured for 
reporting. I recognized her ability to build clean, user -friendly visuals and encouraged her to ask 
clarifying questions so our outputs aligned.
How did I embrace challenges as opportunities to learn and grow?
When the BOM reconciliation work shifted repeatedly, I treated each shift as an opportunity to better 
understand enterprise data ecosystems. Instead of resisting, I built documentation and models that 
flexed with each change.
How did I leverage resources to maximize career potential at Tyson?
I pursued SAP certification research, Power BI best practices, and Agile PO frameworks outside of 
daily tasks, then applied them into my role to add value as a Product Owner. I also am currently 
pursuing a Product Management Certificate. 
Humility–Operate with integrity and respect
How did I create space for others' ideas and embrace differences?
In team sessions, I encouraged Phuong to present their SQL approaches first, then layered in my 
ideas. I valued different perspectives before suggesting final directions.
How did I value the contributions of all team members?
I acknowledged Ayesha’s Power BI expertise and credited her designs when sharing feedback with 
leadership. I also provided feedback to team members on areas they can improve and asked for 
feedback on areas where I can improve. 
How did I demonstrate empathy and prioritize understanding and support?
When business stakeholders expressed frustrations about the BOM Portal (e.g., Angelica’s survey 
feedback on mass terminations and approvals), I actively listened and reframed their pain points into 
actionable user stories that where turned into backlog items.
How did I cultivate a humble, collaborative, and inclusive work culture?
I admitted when I needed to take a step back and gain more clarification on SAP processes, and 
positioned my role as learning alongside the team rather than claiming to have all the answers. This 
helped foster trust and collaboration. I also worked with ABAP developers, Data Architects, and 
other analysts. 
Teamwork –Collaborate as One inclusive Tyson
How did I build strong relationships with peers and partners across the enterprise?
I built strong working relationships with finance leaders (Doug, Ken) and technical peers (Andre, 
Fern, Ayesha), creating bridges between business and IT.
How did I collaborate with others to achieve operational excellence?
partnered closely with Ayesha on the data modeling layer to ensure the Power BI design was not 
only technically accurate but also aligned with business usability. At the same time, I collaborated 
with the UX/UI team to incorporate business pain points (e.g., bulk approvals, clearer BOM status 
visibility, and streamlined termination workflows) into wireframes and design sessions. This cross -
functional alignment ensured that both the analytical reporting and the system’s front -end experience 
supported operational excellence, creating outputs that were trusted, intuitive, and actionable for end 
users.
How did I encourage diverse viewpoints by seeking first to understand?
In stakeholder meetings, I began with clarifying questions before proposing solutions, ensuring the 
business perspective was fully captured before designing reconciliation logic.
How did I adjust influence techniques to reach shared goals?
With technical peers, I used detailed SQL and SAP field discussions to align; with business 
stakeholders, I translated those details into simplified visuals and narratives. This flexible approach 
ensured alignment at all levels.
erformance Below Expectations
Question
Question
List individually, each area(s) of the Team Member’s performance and/or behaviors that 
fall below expectations for the Team Member’s current position. Include specific dates 
and times, if applicable.
Manager
Answer
Answer
Speed of delivery and execution -Ongoing
Product Owner Responsibilities -Ongoing
Adaptability & Growth -Ongoing
Proactivity and Self -Learning -Ongoing
Question
Question
List each date and prior actions the supervisor has taken or coaching provided to correct 
performance issues, if applicable.
Manager
Answer
Answer
Mid-Year Review -March 2025
Pre-PIP -May 2025
Second Pre -PIP -June 2025
Third Pre -PIP -July 2025
Impact to Business
Question
Question
List each of the Team Member’s failure and describe how each failure to meet expectations 
has impacted the business or the broader team.
Manager
Answer
Answer
Speed of Delivery & Execution: When Greg misses deadlines or changes tasks too much, it 
slows down the whole team. Other people can’t move forward, and the business doesn’t get 
Glowing reccomendation from Ken McCreary on May 2nd2025
   Performance Page 182    
slows down the whole team. Other people can’t move forward, and the business doesn’t get 
the reports it needs on time. This affects trust and planning.
Greg often doesn’t finish his Jira tasks on time, even though he creates them himself and sets 
his own schedule. He changes the task details too often, which causes delays and makes it 
hard to complete the work.
Examples:
Several tasks during the first sprints were scoped as exploratory deliverables, with minimal 
dependencies and flexible timelines. Despite this, Greg often missed deadlines or delivered 
incomplete work.
Greg changed the scope of the “AUDIT –BOM & SAP Reconciliation Design Documentation -Draft -
Component Material” task four times once the status was ready for validation, which caused confusion and 
required multiple validations.
Over the course of six sprints (May 1 –July 29), Greg consistently struggled to meet his assigned goals. 
According to data confirmed by Project Manager, he completed only 4 tasks during this period, despite 
having committed to significantly more.
Product Owner Responsibilities: When there isn’t a strong Product Owner, the team gets 
confused and doesn’t know what to focus on. Tasks aren’t clear, and work slows down. This makes 
it hard for the team to finish things and reach business goals. It also causes problems for Andre. 
Without someone to lead the product, all the work ends up on him. He has to make decisions, plan 
everything, and keep things moving. That’s too much for one person, and it’s starting to wear him 
out.
Greg is not acting like a Product Owner. He doesn’t keep the backlog updated, doesn’t check his 
teammates’ Jira stories, and doesn’t guide or support the team. He’s not stepping up to be a key 
contact or helping others when needed.
Examples:
On two separate occasions, Greg closed Jira tasks without validating the deliverables against the 
acceptance criteria. In both cases, the team had to reopen the tasks and revise the work, causing 
delays and confusion.
During the sprint planning and backlog refinement sessions, Greg has not actively participated in 
defining Jira stories for other team members. He rarely reaches out to the team, except for the 
product manager, to clarify requirements or ensure alignment, leaving gaps in story clarity.
Even though Greg has offered to help with validations, his input is often overruled. And when he 
does validate tasks, the team frequently finds inconsistencies in his approach, for example, missing 
acceptance criteria or unclear steps. When asked about his process, it’s often evident that key 
details were overlooked.
We also haven’t seen much initiative from Greg to get involved beyond the reconciliation report. 
Despite having chances to learn from the team and take on more responsibility, he’s leaned on his 
lack of technical knowledge as a reason to stay on the sidelines. What’s missing is a proactive effort 
to build that knowledge and grow into the role.  
Adaptability and Growth: If Greg doesn’t grow or help in new areas, the team struggles to meet 
deadlines. The team becomes less flexible, and knowledge stays limited. This makes it harder to 
solve problems and respond to changes.
Greg is not showing flexibility or a growth mindset. He avoids taking on new tasks or helping outside 
his role. When the team needs extra support, he doesn’t step in. He also doesn’t show interest in 
learning new areas.
Examples:
In retrospect, Greg has been passive and does not contribute feedback or acknowledge team 
concerns. This limits the team’s ability to improve processes collaboratively.
When issues arise, Greg often communicates reactively rather than proactively, waiting until 
problems escalate instead of flagging them early.
Greg has been working extremely separately from the team, often completing tasks without 
discussing them or seeking input. This has led to team disconnection and a lack of shared 
understanding around deliverables.
Proactivity and Self -Learning: When Greg doesn’t take initiative, it slows down progress and uses 
up other people’s time. The team can’t work as fast, and Greg misses chances to grow. This affects 
how well the team can support the business.
Greg depends too much on others for help. He often asks the Product Manager instead of checking 
documents or asking teammates. He needs to explore the app and learn more on his own.
Examples:
Despite multiple opportunities to take ownership of new initiatives, like the reconciliation report, Greg 
has consistently chosen low -impact, individual tasks. He’s had chances to step up in meaningful 
ways: volunteering to lead standups, taking initiative on support analysis, or even validating pending 
tasks when the Product Manager was unavailable. These moments were valuable learning 
opportunities, yet he hasn’t taken advantage of them. Greg could also show more curiosity by 
engaging with his teammates, asking what they’re working on, understanding their challenges, and 
building context. These small actions would help him grow his technical and product knowledge over 
time. But instead of leaning in, he’s remained on the sidelines, missing chances to contribute more 
broadly and build trust with the team.
When the team shifted focus to more cross -functional collaboration, Greg did not adjust his workflow 
or seek to understand how his work could align better with others.
Feedback provided during Performance Conversations and 1:1s has not resulted in noticeable 
changes in Greg’s behavior or engagement.
The team has delegated additional responsibilities to Greg, such as managing follow -up email 
chains with stakeholders. However, these tasks are often neglected unless he’s reminded 
repeatedly. A clear example is the issue with PRB0046227 and the related email thread titled BOM 
Portal Submission to SAP. I specifically assigned those emails to Greg, but unless I follow up with 
him directly, they go unattended. This lack of follow -through causes delays, creates unnecessary 
bottlenecks, and forces others to step in to keep things moving. It’s not just about missed emails, it’s 
about missed ownership.  
Greg frequently arrives late to meetings or misses them entirely, which disrupts team coordination 
and undermines shared accountability. He has also been working remotely beyond the allowed time 
and often works late hours without any directive from management. This behavior sets a poor 
example for the rest of the team and creates confusion around expectations and boundaries.
Expectations for Future Performance
Question
Question
List separately each objective, action steps, dates, and means of measures for each, 
that the Team Member needs to achieve in order to meet performance expectations
Manager
Answer
Answer
Requirements Documentation & Process Clarity (25%)
Collaborate with stakeholders to gather and document business requirements and 
functional specifications.
Use standardized templates to ensure clarity and consistency.
Maintain a centralized repository for requirements and process documentation.
Target Dates: 
Update every 1:1
Survey/Feedback to be completed by Oct 10 and review results by Oct 17.
Means of Measure: 
At least 90% of requirements are documented within agreed timelines.
Stakeholder survey/feedback with a minimum satisfaction score of 4/5 regarding clarity and 
completeness of documentation.
Stakeholder Collaboration & Communication (20%)
Schedule and lead regular meetings with stakeholders to review progress and confirm alignment on 
requirements
Simplify complex technical requirements into clear business terms for non -technical audiences.
Provide concise written and verbal updates to stakeholders.
Target Dates: 
Conduct stakeholder meetings at least weekly during requirements gathering.
Meeting notes shared within 24 hours after each session.
Means of Measure: 
Attendance, punctuality, and participation in 100% of assigned stakeholder meetings .
Stakeholder survey feedback showing improvement in communication clarity (minimum 4/5 
rating).
Documented meeting notes/action items shared within 24 hours of each session.
Project Delivery & Testing Support (10%)
Contribute to project delivery by ensuring requirements traceability from gathering through testing.
Develop and execute test plans.
Track and report on testing outcomes in collaboration with QA/technical teams.
Target Dates: 
   Performance Page 183    
Target Dates: 
Complete initial linkage requirements to planned test cases within 2 weeks of requirements 
gathering                                                           .
Develop and document assigned test plans and test cases by Day 25.
Execute assigned test cases and provide outcome documentation by Day 40.
Means of Measure: 
100% of assigned test cases documented and executed within project timelines.
Zero critical defects missed due to incomplete or unclear requirements.
Traceability matrix completed and validated before project go -live.
Assigned Support for Architect (45%)
Work side by side with the Architect to complete assignments as delegated (e.g., requirements 
clarification, documentation, validation, or analysis).
Deliver assignments within agreed timelines and according to provided instructions.
Seek clarification proactively to ensure work meets expected quality standards.
Target Dates: 
Assignments delegated throughout the PIP period must be delivered within the timeline agreed upon 
with the Architect.
Weekly check -ins with the Architect to confirm progress and adjust priorities as needed.
All deliverables completed no later than Day 45 of the PIP period.
Means of Measure: 
Feedback from the Architect indicating satisfactory performance on at least 90% of delegated tasks 
(minimum rating of 4/5).
100% of assignments completed within agreed timelines.
Deliverables demonstrate accuracy and completeness, requiring minimal rework.
Question
Question
The supervisor shall meet with the Team Member during the course of the performance 
improvement plan to gauge progress against the objectives and provide feedback to the Team 
Member. These meetings shall occur at the supervisor’s direction, and on a bi -weekly basis, at 
a minimum. For Performance Improvement Plans of shorter duration, e.g. 30 days, progress 
should be measured on a weekly basis. Human Resources attendance at these meetings is 
required for the initial meeting, and encouraged, but not mandatory for subsequent follow up 
meetings. Human Resources should be kept apprised of all discussions for the entirety of the 
PIP.
This Performance Improvement Plan shall remain in effect for:
Manager
Answer
Answer
45 days. 
Consequences
Question
Question
Immediate and sustained performance improvement is expected.
If required improvement is not achieved and sustained, disciplinary action up to and including 
dismissal without severance may occur.
Tyson Foods, Inc. may amend or modify its human resources policies and procedures at any 
time with or without notice.
Termination can occur at any time during this plan if performance continues to decline or 
acceptable progress is not being achieved.
This document does not create any contractual obligation between Tyson Foods, Inc. and its 
Team Members.
Attachments
Manager
Follow -Up on Performance Expectations.eml
Uploaded by 
Kaylee Bell (01058367)
1 week ago
Upload Date
Upload Date
09/05/2025 03:51 PM
Comment
Comment
Email
Re_ Follow -Up on Performance Expectations.eml
Uploaded by 
Kaylee Bell (01058367)
1 week ago
Upload Date
Upload Date
09/05/2025 03:51 PM
Comment
Comment
Email
Re_ Follow -Up on Performance Expectations (1).eml
Uploaded by 
Kaylee Bell (01058367)
1 week ago
Upload Date
Upload Date
09/05/2025 03:51 PM
Comment
Comment
Email
Performance Improvement Plan GH -PO.pdf
Uploaded by 
Kaylee Bell (01058367)
1 week ago
Upload Date
Upload Date
09/05/2025 03:51 PM
Comment
Comment
PDF PIP
Re_ Follow -Up on Performance Expectations (2).eml
Uploaded by 
Kaylee Bell (01058367)
1 week ago
Upload Date
Upload Date
09/05/2025 03:51 PM
Comment
Comment
Email
   Performance Page 184    
Performance Assessment Template -IT Product Owner I.xlsx
Uploaded by 
Kaylee Bell (01058367)
1 week ago
Upload Date
Upload Date
09/05/2025 03:51 PM
Comment
Comment
Performance Assessment
   Performance Page 185    
Hello Greg,
Thank you for your time this morning. As discussed, I am outlining the areas that require your 
attention and improvement.
SAP Reconciliation Report During our call, you raised a concern about why Ayesha is not 
handling the query part. After researching, I understand that Ayesha should model the report, 
but the query part should be driven by you. Given your expertise with the BOM portal and your 
knowledge of the database and process flow, it would be more efficient for you to handle this 
aspect. If you disagree, please let me know so I can schedule a call with Jerry and Andre to 
address your concern.
Working Hours I would appreciate it if you could align your office hours with Zach's, as this will 
foster a sense of team belonging. In Mexico, we agreed to work from 7 AM to 4 PM. 
Maintaining these hours is crucial for team connectivity.
Training You have expressed the need for additional training. Please provide me with a list of 
topics where you feel reinforcement is necessary. Once I have your list, I will coordinate with 
Andre, Joceline, or Marcelo to cover these items and reinforce your knowledge. Deadline to 
deliver the list: Friday May 30. 
Product Owner Activities I will discuss with Andre to delegate more Product Owner activities to 
you, providing clear expectations. These activities will involve user story creation and validation 
analysis.
Specific Goals for Next Evaluation To set more specific goals for our next evaluation, please 
focus on the following:
Complete the SAP Reconciliation Report.•
Work from home only when absolutely necessary.•
Answer questions after each KT session provided.•
Write, track, and complete at least four user stories created by you.•
Validate at least 2 user stories. •
Request less guidance and start guiding others.•
I have scheduled a meeting for Tuesday, June 24 , to evaluate your progress over the month. 
We will identify wins and areas for improvement to ensure we stay on track.
Thank you for your flexibility and willingness to work on these items. I truly appreciate your 
efforts and will do my best to provide you with the necessary support to succeed in your 
Product Owner role.
If you disagree with any point mentioned, please let me know, and we can connect to discuss it 
further.  
Fernanda Espinoza, IT Operations Developer Manager
Costing & Controlling -BOM Portal 
Fernanda.Espinoza@tyson.com
Hi Greg,
Before I head off on leave, I wanted to follow up on my previous email regarding the training 
recap list. The deadline was set for Friday, May 30 , and I haven't yet received it. I understand 
you’ve been busy with the reconciliation report, but having the list is essential so I can 
coordinate with the team on who’s available to lead the training. When I’m out, could you 
please ensure that Tricia receives the list by Friday, June 13 ? Your help on this is really 
appreciated.
I also recognize that the reconciliation report has been a challenge. If you run into any snags or 
have concerns, let's address them sooner rather than later. It would be great if you could 
proactively work through any issues, and ideally, complete the tasks before the deadlines. We 
are here if you need to bounce off ideas or need extra support.
Please keep in mind the expectations defined in my previous email, we will review these 
together once I’m back on June 23. 
One more note: I've noticed you've been requesting work from home frequently lately. I 
completely understand the need for flexibility, but I’d like you to save that option for special 
situations whenever possible. As we discussed, keeping the team together, especially working 
on the same hours as Zach, is important for fostering open communication and a strong team 
culture.
Please feel free to reach out if you have any questions or need to discuss any of this further. 
Thanks so much for your efforts, and I’m looking forward to seeing everything come together!
Fernanda Espinoza, IT Operations Developer Manager
Costing & Controlling -BOM Portal 
Fernanda.Espinoza@tyson.com
From: Espinoza, Alma Fernanda
Sent: Friday, May 23, 2025 5:09 PM
To:Homstad, Greg < Greg.Homstad@tyson.com >
Subject: Follow -Up on Performance Expectations 
Hello Greg,
Thank you for your time this morning. As discussed, I am outlining the areas that require your 
attention and improvement.
SAP Reconciliation Report During our call, you raised a concern about why Ayesha is not 
handling the query part. After researching, I understand that Ayesha should model the report, 
but the query part should be driven by you. Given your expertise with the BOM portal and your 
knowledge of the database and process flow, it would be more efficient for you to handle this 
aspect. If you disagree, please let me know so I can schedule a call with Jerry and Andre to 
address your concern.
Working Hours I would appreciate it if you could align your office hours with Zach's, as this will 
foster a sense of team belonging. In Mexico, we agreed to work from 7 AM to 4 PM. 
Maintaining these hours is crucial for team connectivity.
Training You have expressed the need for additional training. Please provide me with a list of 
   Performance Page 186    
Training You have expressed the need for additional training. Please provide me with a list of 
topics where you feel reinforcement is necessary. Once I have your list, I will coordinate with 
Andre, Joceline, or Marcelo to cover these items and reinforce your knowledge. Deadline to 
deliver the list: Friday May 30. 
Product Owner Activities I will discuss with Andre to delegate more Product Owner activities to 
you, providing clear expectations. These activities will involve user story creation and validation 
analysis.
Specific Goals for Next Evaluation To set more specific goals for our next evaluation, please 
focus on the following:
Complete the SAP Reconciliation Report.•
Work from home only when absolutely necessary.•
Answer questions after each KT session provided.•
Write, track, and complete at least four user stories created by you.•
Validate at least 2 user stories. •
Request less guidance and start guiding others.•
I have scheduled a meeting for Tuesday, June 24 , to evaluate your progress over the month. 
We will identify wins and areas for improvement to ensure we stay on track.
Thank you for your flexibility and willingness to work on these items. I truly appreciate your 
efforts and will do my best to provide you with the necessary support to succeed in your 
Product Owner role.
If you disagree with any point mentioned, please let me know, and we can connect to discuss it 
further.  
Fernanda Espinoza, IT Operations Developer Manager
Costing & Controlling -BOM Portal 
Fernanda.Espinoza@tyson.com
Hi Greg,
Thanks for sharing the information and for joining our follow -up meeting on Tuesday, June 24.
As discussed, it’s important we continue to set clear expectations ahead of our next check -in on 
Wednesday, July 30 (invite sent). While some of the previous goals weren’t met due to your 
focus on the Reconciliation Report, which we understand, we still need your support in evolving 
your role as a Product Owner.
Specifically, having both you and Andre involved in Jira validations at the end of each sprint 
would prevent the current overload on Andre. Your contribution here is key.
Since you'll be working remotely for a couple of weeks, please ensure frequent communication 
with the team and flag any risks or delays that could affect your tasks
We now recognize the Recon Report is more complex than anticipated, so please take into 
account Andre’s suggestions moving forward.
To better align efforts and measure progress, here are your key goals before our next 
evaluation:
Complete the SAP Reconciliation Report Documentation.
Document join logic and naming standards used for table relationships in GCP, 
including integration with SAP Text tables (per Andre’s recommendation).○•
List the key blockers and challenges you've faced, and who you believe could help resolve 
them.•
Complete all Jira tasks assigned for the next sprint period (approx. July 2 –16). •
Write, track, and complete 2 user stories of your own. •
Validate at least 4 user stories from your teammates to help distribute sprint closure 
efforts•
Attend additional KT sessions by Joss, Marcelo, or Andre, questions will be asked during 
these to ensure understanding.•
Please give these goals your best effort. They’re designed to help us maintain momentum and 
keep delivering value from a Product Owner perspective.
If there’s anything you disagree with or want to clarify, let’s connect and talk it through.
Thanks,
Fernanda Espinoza, IT Operations Developer Manager
Costing & Controlling -BOM Portal 
Fernanda.Espinoza@tyson.com
From: Homstad, Greg < Greg.Homstad@tyson.com >
Sent: Monday, June 16, 2025 6:02 AM
To:McCoy, Tricia < Tricia.McCoy@tyson.com >
Cc:Espinoza, Alma Fernanda < Fernanda.Espinoza@tyson.com >
Subject: Re: Follow -Up on Performance Expectations
Hi Fernanda and Tricia,
Here’s my updated list of areas where I would benefit from further training or a deeper dive:
APBs (Assembly Processing BOMs):
Walkthrough on APB management in SAP and BOM Portal —how they’re created, used, and 
common troubleshooting scenarios.
Unchecked Inventory Points:
Guidance on identifying, setting up, and correcting unchecked inventory points in the system, 
and understanding their impact on reporting and reconciliation.
Phantom BOMs:
More in -depth training on how Phantom BOMs are handled in SAP and BOM Portal, especially 
in terms of processing, structure, and reporting.
Seconds Materials:
Best practices for tracking, reporting, and reconciling seconds materials (byproducts/second 
quality) across SAP and BOM Portal.
Engineering AOP (Annual Operating Plan):
How annual operating plan updates are managed in both systems/
HashiCorp Vault Endpoints:
Review of our current Vault endpoints, authentication, securely retrieving/storing secrets, and 
integrating Vault with our application workflows.
   Performance Page 187    
Splunk & API Integrations:
Best practices for using Splunk for monitoring/troubleshooting, and working with APIs for 
system integration and automation.
Insomnia (API Client):
Walkthrough on using Insomnia for our API workflows —setting up requests, managing 
environments, and troubleshooting.
Cloning from GitLab:
Step -by-step instructions on cloning the application repo, setting up the local development 
environment, and collaborating with the team.
Thanks for your help in getting me up to speed on these areas!
Greg Homstad, IT Product Owner
IT Finance –Controlling and Costing
Greg.Homstad@tyson.com
From: Homstad, Greg < Greg.Homstad@tyson.com >
Sent: Thursday, June 12, 2025 4:56 PM
To:McCoy, Tricia < Tricia.McCoy@tyson.com >
Cc:Espinoza, Alma Fernanda < Fernanda.Espinoza@tyson.com >
Subject: Re: Follow -Up on Performance Expectations
Thanks for the follow -up on this email, it got lost in my inbox. 
 ust confirming I’ll have the updated training recap list to you both by Monday at the latest. I 
know it’s past the original deadline —apologies for the delay. I’ve had to focus on the 
reconciliation report and due to the GCP downtime today I have more work to get caught up 
this weekend.
Fernanda, thanks for the feedback on work -from -home requests. I do have an exception to 
work from home once a week, and I’ll continue to limit my requests to that. Otherwise, I’ll 
prioritize being in the office to support the team.
Thanks for your patience.
Best,
Greg
Greg Homstad, IT Product Owner
IT Finance –Controlling and Costing
Greg.Homstad@tyson.com
From: McCoy, Tricia < Tricia.McCoy@tyson.com >
Sent: Thursday, June 12, 2025 4:47 PM
To:Homstad, Greg < Greg.Homstad@tyson.com >
Cc:Espinoza, Alma Fernanda < Fernanda.Espinoza@tyson.com >
Subject: RE: Follow -Up on Performance Expectations
Greg,
I haven’t seen the training list from you yet.  I need you to send me that list on Monday.  If there are 
gaps in your training, we need to get that resolved ASAP.
Thanks,
Tricia
From: Espinoza, Alma Fernanda < Fernanda.Espinoza@tyson.com >
Sent: Friday, June 6, 2025 4:04 PM
To:Homstad, Greg < Greg.Homstad@tyson.com >
Cc:McCoy, Tricia < Tricia.McCoy@tyson.com >
Subject: Re: Follow -Up on Performance Expectations
Importance: High
Hi Greg,
Before I head off on leave, I wanted to follow up on my previous email regarding the training 
recap list. The deadline was set for Friday, May 30 , and I haven't yet received it. I understand 
you’ve been busy with the reconciliation report, but having the list is essential so I can 
coordinate with the team on who’s available to lead the training. When I’m out, could you 
please ensure that Tricia receives the list by Friday, June 13 ? Your help on this is really 
appreciated.
I also recognize that the reconciliation report has been a challenge. If you run into any snags or 
have concerns, let's address them sooner rather than later. It would be great if you could 
proactively work through any issues, and ideally, complete the tasks before the deadlines. We 
are here if you need to bounce off ideas or need extra support.
Please keep in mind the expectations defined in my previous email, we will review these 
together once I’m back on  une 23. 
One more note: I've noticed you've been requesting work from home frequently lately. I 
completely understand the need for flexibility, but I’d like you to save that option for special 
situations whenever possible. As we discussed, keeping the team together, especially working 
on the same hours as Zach, is important for fostering open communication and a strong team 
culture.
Please feel free to reach out if you have any questions or need to discuss any of this further. 
Thanks so much for your efforts, and I’m looking forward to seeing everything come together!
Fernanda Espinoza, IT Operations Developer Manager
Costing & Controlling -BOM Portal 
Fernanda.Espinoza@tyson.com
From: Espinoza, Alma Fernanda
Sent: Friday, May 23, 2025 5:09 PM
To:Homstad, Greg < Greg.Homstad@tyson.com >
Subject: Follow -Up on Performance Expectations
Hello Greg,
Thank you for your time this morning. As discussed, I am outlining the areas that require your 
attention and improvement.
   Performance Page 188    
attention and improvement.
SAP Reconciliation Report During our call, you raised a concern about why Ayesha is not 
handling the query part. After researching, I understand that Ayesha should model the report, 
but the query part should be driven by you. Given your expertise with the BOM portal and your 
knowledge of the database and process flow, it would be more efficient for you to handle this 
aspect. If you disagree, please let me know so I can schedule a call with Jerry and Andre to 
address your concern.
Working Hours I would appreciate it if you could align your office hours with Zach's, as this will 
foster a sense of team belonging. In Mexico, we agreed to work from 7 AM to 4 PM. 
Maintaining these hours is crucial for team connectivity.
Training You have expressed the need for additional training. Please provide me with a list of 
topics where you feel reinforcement is necessary. Once I have your list, I will coordinate with 
Andre, Joceline, or Marcelo to cover these items and reinforce your knowledge. Deadline to 
deliver the list: Friday May 30.
Product Owner Activities I will discuss with Andre to delegate more Product Owner activities to 
you, providing clear expectations. These activities will involve user story creation and validation 
analysis.
Specific Goals for Next Evaluation To set more specific goals for our next evaluation, please 
focus on the following:
Complete the SAP Reconciliation Report.•
Work from home only when absolutely necessary.•
Answer questions after each KT session provided.•
Write, track, and complete at least four user stories created by you.•
Validate at least 2 user stories. •
Request less guidance and start guiding others.•
I have scheduled a meeting for Tuesday, June 24 , to evaluate your progress over the month. 
We will identify wins and areas for improvement to ensure we stay on track.
Thank you for your flexibility and willingness to work on these items. I truly appreciate your 
efforts and will do my best to provide you with the necessary support to succeed in your 
Product Owner role.
If you disagree with any point mentioned, please let me know, and we can connect to discuss it 
further.  
Fernanda Espinoza, IT Operations Developer Manager
Costing & Controlling -BOM Portal 
Fernanda.Espinoza@tyson.com
Tyson Foods, Inc. Performance Improvement Plan Page 1 of 11 Team Member Name: Greg Homstad 
Team Member Location: Springdale, Arkansas Supervisor Name: Tricia McCoy/Fernanda Espinoza Date 
Plan Initiated: Targeted Date for Plan Completion: This form serves as a template for a manager to 
complete, with their HR Partner, prior to entering into Workday, for a team member not meeting 
performance and/or behavioral expectations. A PIP would be issued after documented discussions and 
development actions have not led to improvement. Human Resources Standard Operating Procedure -
Performance Improvement Plans Performance Improvement Plan User Guide How do I complete a 
Performance Improvement Plan (PIP) for a team member? Part I –Performance Below Expectations 
Describe the area(s) of the team member’s performance and/or behaviors that fall below expectations 
for the team member’s current position. Include specific dates and times, if applicable. Unacceptable 
Performance/Behaviors Dates/Times Speed of delivery and execution On -going Product Owner 
Responsibilities On -going Adaptability & Growth On -going Proactivity and Self -Learning On -going Tyson 
Foods, Inc. Performance Improvement Plan Page 2 of 11 Outline prior actions the supervisor has taken, 
or coaching provided to correct performance issues, if applicable. Actions/Coaching Dates Mid -Year 
Review March 2025 Pre -PIP May 2025 Second Pre -PIP June 2025 Third Pre -PIP July 2025 Part II –Impact 
to the Business Describe how the team member’s failure to meet expectations has impacted the 
business or the broader team. Performance/Behaviors Impact to the Business Speed of Delivery & 
Execution: • Greg often doesn’t finish his  ira tasks on time, even though he creates them himself and 
sets his own schedule. He changes the task details too often, which causes delays and makes it hard to 
complete the work. Examples: • Several tasks during the first sprints were scoped as exploratory 
deliverables, with minimal dependencies and flexible timelines. Despite this, Greg often missed 
deadlines or delivered incomplete work. • Greg changed the scope of the “AUDIT –BOM & SAP 
Reconciliation Design Documentation -Draft -Component Material” task four times When Greg misses 
deadlines or changes tasks too much, it slows down the whole team. Other people can’t move forward, 
and the business doesn’t get the reports it needs on time. This affects trust and planning. Tyson  oods, 
Inc. Performance Improvement Plan Page 3 of 11 once the status was ready for validation, which caused 
confusion and required multiple validations. • Over the course of six sprints (May 1 –July 29), Greg 
consistently struggled to meet his assigned goals. According to data confirmed by Project Manager, he 
completed only 4 tasks during this period, despite having committed to significantly more. Product 
Owner Responsibilities: • Greg is not acting like a Product Owner. He doesn’t keep the backlog updated, 
doesn’t check his teammates’  ira stories, and doesn’t guide or support the team. He’s not stepping up 
to be a key contact or helping others when needed. Examples: • On two separate occasions, Greg closed 
Jira tasks without validating the deliverables against the acceptance criteria. In both cases, the team had 
to reopen the tasks and revise the work, causing delays and confusion. • During the sprint planning and 
backlog refinement sessions, Greg has not actively participated in defining Jira stories for other team 
members. He rarely reaches out to the team, except for the product manager, to clarify requirements or 
ensure alignment, leaving gaps in story clarity. • Even though Greg has offered to help with validations, 
his input is often overruled. And when he does validate tasks, the team frequently finds inconsistencies 
in his approach, for example, missing acceptance criteria or unclear steps. When asked about his 
process, it’s often evident that key details were overlooked. • We also haven’t seen much initiative from 
Greg to get involved beyond the reconciliation report. Despite having chances to learn from the team 
and take on more responsibility, he’s leaned on his lack of technical knowledge as a reason to stay on 
the sidelines. What’s When there isn’t a strong Product Owner, the team gets confused and doesn’t 
know what to focus on. Tasks aren’t clear, and work slows down. This makes it hard for the team to 
finish things and reach business goals. It also causes problems for Andre. Without someone to lead the 
product, all the work ends up on him. He has to make decisions, plan everything, and keep things 
moving. That’s too much for one person, and it’s starting to wear him out. Tyson  oods, Inc. 
Performance Improvement Plan Page 4 of 11 missing is a proactive effort to build that knowledge and 
grow into the role. Adaptability and Growth: • Greg is not showing flexibility or a growth mindset. He 
avoids taking on new tasks or helping outside his role. When the team needs extra support, he doesn’t 
step in. He also doesn’t show interest in learning new areas. Examples: • In retrospect, Greg has been 
passive and does not contribute feedback or acknowledge team concerns. This limits the team’s ability 
to improve processes collaboratively. • When issues arise, Greg often communicates reactively rather 
than proactively, waiting until problems escalate instead of flagging them early. • Greg has been 
working extremely separately from the team, often completing tasks without discussing them or seeking 
input. This has led to team disconnection and a lack of shared understanding around deliverables. If 
Greg doesn’t grow or help in new areas, the team struggles to meet deadlines. The team becomes less 
flexible, and knowledge stays limited. This makes it harder to solve problems and respond to changes. 
Proactivity and Self -Learning: • Greg depends too much on others for help. He often asks the Product 
Manager instead of checking documents or asking teammates. He needs to explore the app and learn 
more on his own. Examples: • Despite multiple opportunities to take ownership of new initiatives, like 
the reconciliation report, Greg has consistently chosen low -impact, individual tasks. He’s had chances to 
step up in meaningful ways: volunteering to lead standups, taking initiative on support analysis, or 
When Greg doesn’t take initiative, it slows down progress and uses up other people’s time. The team 
can’t work as fast, and Greg misses chances to grow. This affects how well the team can support the 
business. Tyson Foods, Inc. Performance Improvement Plan Page 5 of 11 even validating pending tasks 
when the Product Manager was unavailable. These moments were valuable learning opportunities, yet 
he hasn’t taken advantage of them. Greg could also show more curiosity by engaging with his 
teammates, asking what they’re working on, understanding their challenges, and building context. These 
small actions would help him grow his technical and product knowledge over time. But instead of 
leaning in, he’s remained on the sidelines, missing chances to contribute more broadly and build trust 
with the team. • When the team shifted focus to more cross -functional collaboration, Greg did not 
adjust his workflow or seek to understand how his work could align better with others. •  eedback 
provided during Performance Conversations and 1:1s has not resulted in noticeable changes in Greg’s 
behavior or engagement. • The team has delegated additional responsibilities to Greg, such as managing 
follow -up email chains with stakeholders. However, these tasks are often neglected unless he’s 
reminded repeatedly. A clear example is the issue with PRB0046227 and the related email thread titled 
BOM Portal Submission to SAP. I specifically assigned those emails to Greg, but unless I follow up with 
   Performance Page 189    
BOM Portal Submission to SAP. I specifically assigned those emails to Greg, but unless I follow up with 
him directly, they go unattended. This lack of follow -through causes delays, creates unnecessary 
bottlenecks, and forces others to step in to keep things moving. It’s not just about missed emails, it’s 
about missed ownership. • Greg frequently arrives late to meetings or misses them entirely, which 
disrupts team coordination and undermines shared accountability. He has also been working remotely 
beyond the allowed time and often works late hours without any directive from management. This 
behavior sets a poor example for the rest of the team and creates confusion around expectations and 
boundaries. Tyson Foods, Inc. Performance Improvement Plan Page 6 of 11 Part III –Expectations for 
Future Performance Define the objectives, steps, dates, and measures the Team Member needs to 
achieve in order to meet performance expectations. Objective Action Steps Target Dates Means of 
Measure Requirements Documentation & Process Clarity (25%) • Collaborate with stakeholders to 
gather and document business requirements and functional specifications. • Use standardized 
templates to ensure clarity and consistency. • Maintain a centralized repository for requirements and 
process documentation. • Update every 1:1 • Survey/ eedbac k to be completed by Oct 10 and review 
results by Oct 17. • At least 90% of requirements are documented within agreed timelines. • 
Stakeholder survey/feedback with a minimum satisfaction score of 4/5 regarding clarity and 
completeness of documentation. Stakeholder Collaboration & Communication (20%) • Schedule and 
lead regular meetings with stakeholders to review progress and • Conduct stakeholder meetings at least 
weekly • Attendance, punctuality, and participation in 100% of assigned stakeholder meetings. Tyson 
Foods, Inc. Performance Improvement Plan Page 7 of 11 Objective Action Steps Target Dates Means of 
Measure confirm alignment on requirements • Simplify complex technical requirements into clear 
business terms for non technical audiences. • Provide concise written and verbal updates to 
stakeholders. during requirements gathering. • Meeting notes shared within 24 hours after each 
session. • Stakeholder survey feedback showing improvement in communication clarity (minimum 4/5 
rating). • Documented meeting notes/action items shared within 24 hours of each session. Project 
Delivery & Testing Support (10%) • Contribute to project delivery by ensuring requirements traceability 
from gathering through testing. • Develop and execute test plans. • Track and report on testing 
outcomes in collaboration with QA/technical teams. • Complete initial linkage requirements to planned 
test cases within 2 weeks of requirements gathering . • Develop and document • 100% of assigned test 
cases documented and executed within project timelines. • Zero critical defects missed due to 
incomplete or unclear requirements. • Traceability matrix completed and validated before project go -
live. Tyson Foods, Inc. Performance Improvement Plan Page 8 of 11 Objective Action Steps Target Dates 
Means of Measure assigned test plans and test cases by Day 25. • Execute assigned test cases and 
provide outcome documentation by Day 40. Assigned Support for Architect (45%) • Work side by side 
with the Architect to complete assignments as delegated (e.g., requirements clarification, 
documentation, validation, or analysis). • Deliver assignments within agreed timelines and • 
Assignments delegated throughout the PIP period must be delivered within the timeline agreed upon 
with the Architect. •  eedback from the Architect indicating satisfactory performance on at least 90% of 
delegated tasks (minimum rating of 4/5). • 100% of assignments completed within agreed timelines. 
Tyson Foods, Inc. Performance Improvement Plan Page 9 of 11 Objective Action Steps Target Dates 
Means of Measure according to provided instructions. • Seek clarification proactively to ensure work 
meets expected quality standards. • Weekly check ins with the Architect to confirm progress and adjust 
priorities as needed. • All deliverables completed no later than Day 45 of the PIP period. • Deliverables 
demonstrate accuracy and completeness, requiring minimal rework. This Performance Improvement 
Plan shall remain in effect for: 30 days 45 days 90 days and may be extended or discontinued at the 
supervisor’s discretion. The supervisor shall meet with the team member during the course of the 
performance improvement plan to gauge progress against the objectives and provide feedback to the 
team member. These meetings shall occur at the supervisor’s direction and bi -weekly, at a minimum. 
Progress should be measured weekly for Performance Improvement Plans of shorter duration, e.g., 30 
days. Human Resources attendance at these meetings is required for the initial meeting and 
encouraged, but not mandatory for subsequent follow -up meetings. Human Resources should be kept 
apprised of all discussions for the entirety of the PIP. Tyson Foods, Inc. Performance Improvement Plan 
Page 10 of 11 Part IV –Consequences • Immediate and sustained performance improvement is 
expected. • If required improvement is not achieved and sustained, disciplinary action up to and 
including dismissal without severance may occur. • Tyson  oods, Inc. may amend or modify its human 
resources policies and procedures at any time with or without notice. • Termination can occur at any 
time during this plan if performance continues to decline or acceptable progress is not being achieved. • 
This document creates no contractual obligation between Tyson Foods, Inc. and its team members. Part 
V –Follow -Up Review Document the team member’s progress on the performance improvement 
objectives identified in Part III –Supervisor Documentation. Add additional rows as necessary. Review 
Date Objective Progress (Meeting/Not Meeting Expectations) Next Steps 09/05 Discuss Performance 
Improvement Plan 09/12 Performance Improvement Plan –Week 1 Check -In 09/19 Performance 
Improvement Plan –Week 2 Check -In 09/26 Performance Improvement Plan –Week 3 Check -In 10/03 
Performance Improvement Plan –Week 4 Check -In 10/10 Performance Improvement Plan –Week 5 
Check -In 10/17 Performance Improvement Plan –Week 6 Check -In Tyson Foods, Inc. Performance 
Improvement Plan Page 11 of 11 Attachments Attach any relevant materials to the business process in 
Workday, such as coaching, MOUs, team expectations, examples of inadequate performance, etc. 
Hello Tricia, 
I've read through some of the descriptions on each topic, it is noticeable that even the basic 
understanding of each is not met, and I'm concerned that we would have to go even below on 
explanations; if such core concepts are yet to be understood then I also wonder how much aside hasn't 
been digested (e.g.: Unchecked Inventory Points and the justification he gave: adjusting inventory points 
is one of the primary foundations of the application and the business process when addressing Bill of 
Materials, does he understands the concept of inventory point? can he explain the difference between a 
batch and a continuous process?). 
Yes, all of them are important and essential to his role (with room to interject on the "HashiCorp 
Vault endpoints" (also the only point in the justification that is clear to me on what he's expecting 
is the last part (...) integrating Vault with our application workflows )•
Yes, he has received proper/adequate training and instructions in multiple iterations through the 
past year.
I have tried different teaching methods, I have also encouraged Greg to give feedback where 
needed if the topics are not clear or if the methodology that we were following wasn't 
helpful to his reception domain. I'm listing some here so that we can come with a better 
plan:
Heuristics sessions (presentation of the item)▪
Continuous feedback/continuous questioning▪
Interactive and demo sessions (him also interacting where needed)▪
Practical sessions (real -time business applicable sessions either on Testing/Validation 
processes or in Exploration [reverse engineering] analysis)▪
Mentee driven session (where Greg will drive session and teach me (or others) 
through the topics -In this I would normally, by the end of the meeting, having a 
retrofit session w him).▪○•
If you see anything that could be changed, I'll look forward to discussing it with you both. 
Thanks!
Essential Duties and Responsibilities: TM Assessment (0 -5) -Do this first Manager Assessment -Do this 
2nd Manager Notes Suggested Actions -Do this 3rd Requirements Gathering: Learn and observe how to 
work closely with stakeholders, including customers, sales, marketing, and engineering teams, to gather 
and prioritize product requirements. 4 -Proficient: Has demonstrated the task satisfactorily. 3 -Needs 
Improvement: Has demonstrated the task but needs improvement. Greg has demonstrated the ability to 
contribute to requirements gathering but often relies heavily on the Product Manager to fully 
understand and apply basic concepts. At times, this has resulted in design conversations being 
misdirected or losing focus due to gaps in understanding. With greater independence and confidence in 
this area, Greg can strengthen his contribution and reduce rework. "*Prepare for stakeholder sessions 
by reviewing existing documentation and clarifying open questions in advance.
*Practice summarizing requirements back to stakeholders to confirm shared understanding.
*Increase independence by applying templates and checklists before seeking Product Manager review, 
using that feedback to build confidence." Product Planning: Assist in creating and maintaining the 
product roadmap, defining features, and release timelines based on business objectives and user needs 
2 -Attempted: Has attempted the task but with significant errors or requires substantial guidance. 2 -
Attempted: Has attempted the task but with significant errors or requires substantial guidance. Greg has 
not yet taken meaningful ownership in product planning activities such as roadmap input, feature 
definition, and release alignment. Building skills in this area will be critical for his long -term career 
growth, particularly as he has expressed interest in promotion and advancement. With more active 
involvement, Greg can begin developing the strategic perspective needed beyond day -to-day PO tasks. 
"*Shadow the Product Manager in roadmap and planning sessions to build familiarity with process and 
expectations.
*Take ownership of at least one feature’s planning cycle, including defining scope, dependencies, and 
target timelines.
*Request feedback after each planning contribution to accelerate learning and demonstrate readiness 
for greater responsibility." Cross -Functional Collaboration: Collaborate with cross -functional teams, 
including design, engineering, marketing, and sales, to ensure alignment and execution of product 
initiatives 4 -Proficient: Has demonstrated the task satisfactorily. 3 -Needs Improvement: Has 
demonstrated the task but needs improvement. Greg has shown the ability to collaborate but is not yet 
viewed as a key point of contact by the team. At times, team members bypass him to approach others 
with deeper application knowledge. In addition, Greg has not consistently demonstrated active 
engagement in how the project is progressing, which limits his visibility and influence. To be effective in 
   Performance Page 190    
engagement in how the project is progressing, which limits his visibility and influence. To be effective in 
this role, Greg needs to strengthen his application knowledge and take a more proactive role in project 
discussions. "*Dedicate time each week to deepening knowledge of the application so he can respond 
confidently to cross -functional questions.
*Proactively participate in project meetings by raising questions, voicing concerns, or highlighting risks, 
rather than remaining passive.
*Establish himself as a reliable point of contact by promptly following up with stakeholders and 
providing clear updates." Feature Prioritization: Understand how to prioritize features and 
enhancements based on their impact on user experience, business value, and technical feasibility. 0 -No 
exposure: Has not had exposure to doing the task. 0 -No exposure: Has not had exposure to doing the 
task. While feature prioritization is primarily a Product Manager responsibility, there are related areas 
where Greg can strengthen his performance. Specifically, Greg has sometimes delayed raising blockers 
or seeking the right support, which can affect delivery timelines. By improving responsiveness and 
prioritizing escalation of issues, Greg can add significant value to the team even without owning overall 
feature prioritization. "*Raise blockers to the team or manager as soon as they are identified, rather 
than waiting until they cause delays.
*Develop a habit of ranking tasks or issues by urgency and impact, then act on the highest priority items 
first.
*Coordinate with the Product Manager and Architect to ensure blockers are addressed quickly and 
transparently." Project Coordination: Observe and learn to coordinate project activities, tasks, and 
timelines, ensuring that milestones are met, and deliverables are completed on time and within scope 
0 -No exposure: Has not had exposure to doing the task. 0 -No exposure: Has not had exposure to 
doing the task. Although project coordination falls primarily under the Product Manager’s 
responsibilities, Greg has had opportunities to become more involved and increase his visibility in this 
area. By staying closer to ongoing project activities and developing a stronger understanding of tasks 
and timelines, Greg could position himself as a more valuable and trusted member of the team. 
"*Actively track project milestones and deliverables, even when not directly responsible, to build 
awareness of progress and risks.
*Stay in regular contact with the Product Manager and Architect to understand upcoming priorities and 
where support is needed.
*Volunteer to assist with smaller coordination tasks (e.g., follow -ups, meeting recaps) to demonstrate 
initiative and strengthen involvement." Documentation: Create and maintain product documentation, 
including user stories, feature specifications, and release notes, to communicate requirements and 
updates to stakeholders. 5 -Excellent: Has demonstrated the task and performed very well. 3 -Needs 
Improvement: Has demonstrated the task but needs improvement. Greg has shown the ability to 
produce documentation but the quality and consistency need improvement. During validation, his tasks 
often show inconsistencies, and updates to stakeholders are not always timely or clear. In some cases, 
acceptance criteria have not been fully respected, with multiple edits made after tasks were moved to 
validation or tasks closed without proper validation. Improving attention to detail and adherence to 
process will significantly increase confidence in his documentation. "*Ensure acceptance criteria are 
fully defined and agreed upon before moving tasks forward.
*Avoid making undocumented changes once a task is in validation; if updates are needed, log them as 
backlog items or new stories.
*Provide timely updates to stakeholders by documenting changes and decisions clearly in the agreed 
tools.
*Double -check stories and specifications against templates or checklists before submitting them for 
review." Testing and Validation: Learn and observe how user acceptance testing (UAT) and validation of 
product features work to ensure they meet quality standards and user expectations. 5 -Excellent: Has 
demonstrated the task and performed very well. 3 -Needs Improvement: Has demonstrated the task 
but needs improvement. Greg has participated in testing activities but has not yet taken full advantage 
of these opportunities to expand his skills. Becoming more engaged in user acceptance testing, even on 
tasks not directly assigned to him, would strengthen his understanding of the product and improve 
overall quality assurance. Active involvement in this area will also help Greg anticipate potential issues 
earlier in the process. "*Participate in UAT sessions beyond his own assigned tasks to broaden product 
knowledge.
*Practice validating features against documented requirements and acceptance criteria to build 
consistency.
*Collaborate with QA and technical teams to track outcomes and learn from defect reviews.
*Provide written feedback on testing results to demonstrate active contribution and accountability." 
Performance Monitoring: Understanding and assisting in defining and tracking key performance 
indicators (KPIs) and metrics to measure product performance and success. 2 -Attempted: Has 
attempted the task but with significant errors or requires substantial guidance. 0 -No exposure: Has not 
had exposure to doing the task. Greg has not been actively involved in defining or tracking KPIs and 
product performance metrics. Continuous Improvement: Continuously seek opportunities for 
improvement, gathering feedback from users and stakeholders to iterate on product features and 
enhance the overall user experience 5 -Excellent: Has demonstrated the task and performed very well. 
3 -Needs Improvement: Has demonstrated the task but needs improvement. Greg has shown initiative 
by enrolling in a product management course, which is a positive step. However, opportunities for 
continuous improvement have not been fully taken. Despite having access to several learning resources 
provided over the last five months, Greg has not consistently followed through. To grow as a Product 
Owner, it is important for Greg to balance formal training with proactive initiatives that directly support 
the team. "*Complete at least one of the additional learning courses previously provided and apply key 
takeaways in daily work.
*Identify at least one improvement opportunity within current processes or documentation and 
propose a concrete solution.
*Share learnings from the product management course with the team to demonstrate application of 
knowledge.
*Set aside dedicated time each week for structured self -development and track progress." Learning and 
Development: Stay informed about industry trends, best practices, and emerging technologies in 
product management, seeking out learning opportunities to grow and develop in the role 5 -Excellent: 
Has demonstrated the task and performed very well. 3 -Needs Improvement: Has demonstrated the 
task but needs improvement. Greg has not consistently demonstrated application of best practices in 
Agile methodology and has shown limited involvement in project management activities. In addition, 
while multiple learning opportunities have been provided over the last five months, these have not been 
completed. Sustained learning and application of industry best practices are essential for Greg’s 
development as a Product Owner and for building credibility with the team. "*Complete at least one of 
the previously provided courses and apply the learnings to current work.
*Reference Agile best practices explicitly when writing user stories, acceptance criteria, or participating 
in ceremonies.
*Shadow the Product Manager or Architect in at least one project management activity to broaden 
exposure.
*Create a short summary of one new learning (from a course, article, or best practice guide) and share it 
with the team to demonstrate engagement." Customer Support: Provide support to customer -facing 
teams, including responding to customer inquiries, addressing product -related issues, and assisting with 
customer training and onboarding. 5 -Excellent: Has demonstrated the task and performed very well. 3 -
Needs Improvement: Has demonstrated the task but needs improvement. Greg has not consistently 
followed established standards when supporting customer -facing teams. In several cases, users have not 
been guided to log tickets properly, concerns have been redirected to the Product Manager instead of 
being addressed, and involvement in analyzing support issues has been limited. To be effective in this 
role, Greg needs to take greater ownership of customer support processes and play a more active role in 
issue analysis. "*Direct users to create tickets in the appropriate system for all product -related issues 
and ensure they are properly documented.
*Take responsibility for reviewing and analyzing support tickets before escalating them to the Product 
Manager.
*Provide timely responses to customer -facing teams to acknowledge concerns and outline next steps.
*Participate in at least one support issue analysis session per week during the PIP period to strengthen 
problem -solving skills." Team Collaboration: Collaborate with product management peers and other 
team members, sharing knowledge, insights, and best practices to foster a culture of collaboration and 
continuous learning. 3 -Needs Improvement: Has demonstrated the task but needs improvement. 3 -
Needs Improvement: Has demonstrated the task but needs improvement. Greg has not consistently 
raised concerns or requested clarification in team settings, which limits his visibility and contribution to 
project discussions. Beyond project work, he also needs to demonstrate stronger collaboration with 
peers by being more present, responsive, and willing to assist when team members have technical or 
functional questions. Building stronger connections with the team will help foster trust and position 
Greg as a more reliable partner. "*Proactively engage in team discussions by raising at least one 
clarification or observation in each project -related meeting.
*Offer support to peers when technical or functional questions arise, even if it requires additional 
research before responding.
*Schedule short syncs with at least one team member per week to exchange updates and strengthen 
collaboration.
*Share knowledge or best practices learned from courses, documentation, or project work with the 
broader team." Perform other assigned job -related duties that align with our organization's vision, 
mission, and values and fall within your scope of practice. 4 -Proficient: Has demonstrated the task 
satisfactorily. 2 -Attempted: Has attempted the task but with significant errors or requires substantial 
guidance. Greg’s self -reported split of time between analysis/support work and Product Owner (PO) 
   Performance Page 191    
guidance. Greg’s self -reported split of time between analysis/support work and Product Owner (PO) 
responsibilities is not consistent with observed work artifacts (e.g., Jira assignments, meeting 
participation, and deliverables). The PO role is an evolution of the analyst role and should be Greg’s 
primary focus. Despite multiple coaching conversations, alignment has been inconsistent. Clear 
ownership of PO outcomes and proactive communication when competing requests arise are required. 
"*Share a weekly plan that maps planned tasks to PO vs. non -PO categories.
*Maintain a simple activity log (Jira labels) tagging each item as PO/non -PO; review in every 1:1.
*Demonstrate a sustained shift to ≥60% of time on core PO work (requirements quality, stakeholder 
updates, story readiness, testing support)." Special Skills: Methodology: Foundational knowledge of 
Agile Product and Waterfall methodology. 3 -Needs Improvement: Has demonstrated the task but 
needs improvement. 3 -Needs Improvement: Has demonstrated the task but needs improvement. We 
are currently using Agile methodology, and expectations for the Product Owner role are clear within 
that framework. Greg has been in the role for one year and should no longer be struggling with 
foundational concepts. The Product Owner position is an evolution of the analyst role, and a solid grasp 
of Agile practices is critical to performing effectively. Continued confusion around methodology creates 
unnecessary delays and misalignment. "*Review and apply Agile best practices in all ceremonies (e.g., 
backlog refinement, sprint planning, reviews).
*Use user story templates and acceptance criteria consistently to reinforce Agile discipline.
*Attend at least one Agile refresher training session.
*Demonstrate knowledge by explaining how Agile principles apply to his active work during 1:1s and 
team discussions." Communication: Effective communication, able to present to team and management. 
0 -No exposure: Has not had exposure to doing the task. 3 -Needs Improvement: Has demonstrated the 
task but needs improvement. Every interaction with the business is an opportunity to practice and 
demonstrate effective communication. Greg has had the chance to present, including at the SteerCo 
meeting a couple of weeks ago, and there have been multiple opportunities provided to engage with the 
team. Moving forward, Greg needs to approach each of these interactions as a way to build confidence, 
clarity, and consistency in his communication style. "*Prepare for each stakeholder meeting with a 
short, clear summary of key points to communicate.
*Actively practice simplifying complex or technical information into business -friendly terms.
*Seek feedback from the Product Manager or Architect after presentations to identify one area of 
improvement each time.
*Volunteer to lead portions of team updates or business meetings to build consistency." Decision -
Making: Value -based decision -making. 0 -No exposure: Has not had exposure to doing the task. 2 -
Attempted: Has attempted the task but with significant errors or requires substantial guidance. Greg has 
had opportunities to practice decision -making, particularly through his Jira tasks, by signaling blockers or 
requesting help in advance. However, he has not consistently taken these opportunities and has 
primarily been involved only in the reconciliation report. This limited involvement has resulted in missed 
chances to participate in other initiatives where decision -making skills could be applied and 
strengthened. "*Proactively inform the team of blockers as soon as they arise, along with a proposed 
next step or decision path.
*Take initiative to get involved in at least one project activity beyond the reconciliation report.
*Practice value -based decision -making by evaluating trade -offs (e.g., time, impact, complexity) before 
escalating issues.
*Document decisions made on tasks in Jira or meeting notes to build visibility and accountability." 
Problem -solving: Analytical skills for diagnosing and solving issues. 4 -Proficient: Has demonstrated the 
task satisfactorily. 2 -Attempted: Has attempted the task but with significant errors or requires 
substantial guidance. Greg has shown initiative by learning SAP DB to complete tasks, which 
demonstrates commitment and effort. However, problem -solving is not only about completing tasks 
independently, it also requires knowing when to involve the team to reach better solutions faster. Greg 
has been reluctant to request help, which can slow progress and reduce the quality of outcomes. In 
addition, deeper understanding of the product and its dependencies will strengthen his ability to 
diagnose and resolve issues effectively. "*Actively seek support from teammates or subject matter 
experts when facing complex issues instead of working in isolation.
*Use problem -solving frameworks (e.g., define the issue, analyze options, propose solutions) to 
structure analysis and improve clarity." Organization: Managing time, prioritizing tasks, and handling 
responsibilities. 4 -Proficient: Has demonstrated the task satisfactorily. 2 -Attempted: Has attempted 
the task but with significant errors or requires substantial guidance. Greg has shown challenges with 
time management and prioritization. Jira tasks are not always driven to successful completion, and 
supporting evidence of progress is often missing. Stronger organization and task ownership are required 
to ensure responsibilities are delivered on time and with clear visibility to the team. "*Review and 
update Jira tasks daily to ensure progress, blockers, and next steps are clearly documented.
*Use a personal task management method (e.g., daily checklist, calendar reminders) to prioritize 
responsibilities and deadlines." Learning: Self -motivated and willing to learn new technologies and adapt 
to change. 5 -Excellent: Has demonstrated the task and performed very well. 3 -Needs Improvement: 
Has demonstrated the task but needs improvement. Greg has mentioned external adaptation issues, but 
learning and development require individual motivation and initiative. Over the past months, there has 
been little visible effort to proactively learn new technologies or strengthen existing knowledge. As a 
Product Owner, continuous learning is essential to stay effective and credible with both the team and 
stakeholders. "*Complete at least one of the courses previously assigned and demonstrate application 
of the learnings in his work.
*Dedicate time each week to self -study (e.g., Agile practices, product management tools, or .NET 
fundamentals relevant to Bom Forge)." Right Behaviors: Results 4 -Proficient: Has demonstrated the 
task satisfactorily. 3 -Needs Improvement: Has demonstrated the task but needs improvement. Over 
the past five months, Greg has not consistently delivered expected results. Each sprint has included 
missed outcomes, and established goals since June have not been met. In addition, courses suggested 
for his development have not been completed, which has slowed his progress. "*Deliver all assigned 
sprint commitments on time with clear evidence of completion in Jira.
*Align weekly with the Product Manager and Architect to confirm expectations and avoid surprises at 
sprint reviews.
*Complete all manager -assigned courses and share key learnings in a team or 1:1 setting." Innovation 4 -
Proficient: Has demonstrated the task satisfactorily. 2 -Attempted: Has attempted the task but with 
significant errors or requires substantial guidance. The GPT implementation initiative was not pursued, 
and Greg did not show proactive follow -up or interest in revisiting the activity. This reflects missed 
opportunities to contribute new ideas or drive innovation forward. "*Take initiative to follow up on 
previously discussed improvement opportunities and propose next steps.
*Present at least one new idea or process improvement to the team.
*Track and share progress on innovative tasks in weekly updates to demonstrate ownership." Growth 
Mindset 4 -Proficient: Has demonstrated the task satisfactorily. 3 -Needs Improvement: Has 
demonstrated the task but needs improvement. Greg has not demonstrated a strong growth mindset. 
Courses assigned to him were not completed, and he has shown limited involvement in team activities. 
This lack of engagement suggests missed opportunities to develop skills and adapt to new challenges. 
"*Complete outstanding training and apply the knowledge to active tasks.
*Actively participate in at least one team activity or project discussion each week.
*Identify and communicate one personal development goal and track progress." Humility 5 -Excellent: 
Has demonstrated the task and performed very well. 3 -Needs Improvement: Has demonstrated the 
task but needs improvement. During recent recognition for the reconciliation report, Greg did not 
acknowledge the contributions of peers who supported the work. Recognizing team efforts is an 
important part of building trust and credibility. "*Acknowledge the contributions of peers in meetings, 
written updates, or recognition moments.
*Actively seek input from others and highlight their expertise when presenting shared outcomes.
*Practice sharing credit during sprint reviews and retrospectives to reinforce team culture." Teamwork 
4 -Proficient: Has demonstrated the task satisfactorily. 3 -Needs Improvement: Has demonstrated the 
task but needs improvement. Greg has been working in isolation rather than building relationships with 
his team. Limited collaboration and lack of involvement in team activities have reduced his visibility and 
weakened trust. "*Schedule regular touchpoints with team members to exchange updates and build 
stronger working relationships.
*Demonstrate presence in team meetings by asking clarifying questions, offering support, or sharing 
updates."
   Performance Page 192    
Hi Tricia,
Thank you for your email and for the opportunity to align before our meeting when I 
return. I agree maybe this wasn't best place to include Andre and Jerry however the 
insights that I have pertain to their roles as well. This will be outlined a detailed in our 
upcoming meeting. I have completed my sections of the Performance Assessment with 
detailed ratings and comments.
As I reviewed the template, I noticed that several duties and skills listed align more 
closely with a Product Manager or Team Manager role rather than a Product Owner 
role as defined in Agile practices. While I welcome the opportunity for visibility and 
training in these areas to support future growth, the way we have operated as a team 
over the past year has placed many of these responsibilities outside my current scope.
Below is my response to the points you requested:
1. Fundamental disconnect in role definition, responsibilities, and support
I would like to gain a clearer understanding of the distinctions between Product Owner 
I, Product Owner II, and Manager roles within Tyson’s job architecture, as well as what 
is specifically needed from me to progress to a PO II.
Based on Tyson’s IT Job Architecture, my understanding of the core PO I responsibilities 
includes:
Collaborating with the Product Manager and cross -functional teams to understand 
the voice of the customer.•
Translating requirements into actionable user stories and acceptance criteria.•
Participating in sprint ceremonies.•
Assisting in guiding the team in delivering high -quality, customer -focused 
solutions.•
Driving continuous improvement.•
Over the past year, there has been overlap between roles. In some cases, responsibilities 
such as backlog creation, acceptance criteria definition, and roadmap planning have 
primarily been handled by others. I have offered to participate in or take ownership of 
these activities but was redirected or told they would be addressed later (which is what 
I’m now using this email for).
While I acknowledge I could have advocated more strongly from the get go , I am still 
continuing to learn the most effective ways to communicate within the team structure 
and adapt to corporate processes. My goal is to ensure alignment so I can fully deliver 
on the expectations for my role.
2. Requests for realignment
I have previously requested a clear delineation of my responsibilities versus those of the 
Product Manager and Team Manager. I believe it would be valuable to have a 
documented agreement so both Andre and I are fully aligned on:
My direct responsibilities.•
His direct responsibilities.•
Where review, visibility, and feedback are most appropriate.•
As Agile best practices outline:
Product Manager: Owns whyand what big things are built (roadmap, initiative -
level prioritization).•
Product Owner: Owns what exactly and when in sprints (backlog management, 
story writing, acceptance criteria).•
Team Manager: Owns who and how we staff and enable the team (resourcing, 
performance management).•
Clear boundaries here would help reduce role overlap, prevent duplication of effort, and 
ensure performance is measured against my core responsibilities.
3. Additional work and responsibilities
Over the past year, I have taken on responsibilities outside the PO I profile, including:
SAP/BOM Portal reconciliation SQL query development.•
Power BI design specifications, data model reviews, and dashboard•
These contributions were made in good faith to support the team, but they 
represent off -scope work that I believe should be recognized separately from my 
core PO performance.•
   Performance Page 193    
4. What I need to be successful
Role clarity: A documented agreement on PO I vs. Product Manager vs. Team 
Manager responsibilities.•
Scope boundaries: Confirmation of which additional tasks are permanent versus 
temporary or evolving.•
Training plan: Identification of skills to develop for career progression without 
impacting current performance metrics.•
Consistent involvement: Inclusion in all relevant stakeholder and UX/UI meetings 
where my input is valuable.•
Feedback cadence: Regular check -ins to review progress against role expectations 
and overall team alignment.•
5. Why this alignment matters now
The lack of clearly defined boundaries has, at times, impacted deliverables. For example, 
when dependent work items (such as a card remaining in validation after a sprint 
without clear next steps) are delayed, it directly affects my ability to close related tasks, 
impacts reporting timelines, and can create downstream rework. Documented 
ownership and role definitions would ensure accountability, streamline handoffs, and 
protect delivery commitments.
I am committed to improving where needed and to fully aligning with expectations once 
they are clearly defined. I look forward to discussing this with you next week so we can 
finalize role alignment and ensure performance measurement is based on agreed -upon 
responsibilities.
Thank you for your time and consideration.
Best regards,
Greg Homstad
IT Product Owner
BOM Portal –IT Finance, Controlling & Costing
McCoy, Tricia
Homstad, Greg; Espinoza, Alma Fernanda 
Greg,
I have removed Andre & Jerry as I don’t believe they need to be part of this conversation.
Thank you for being committed to doing the work to improve.  As I mentioned to you, Fer laid 
out the areas of improvement, and you have not met those in the past 2 months, so we are 
taking things a step further to ensure we are all on the same page with the assessment 
template.
I would like some clarity on the following statements:
                there has been a fundamental disconnect in how my role was defined from the 
start within this team, how responsibilities have been communicated to me, and the level 
of support provided
I’ve been requesting realignment around duties and team responsibilities for weeks now
additional work and responsibilities I’ve been managing
We need to align on where our communication and your understanding of 
responsibilities have fallen short.
I do want to add that if you have done successful work outside the scope of your role, 
that will be taken into consideration in your annual review.
Let’s discuss these when you are back in the office next week. 
Tricia
Homstad, Greg
Espinoza, Alma Fernanda; McCoy, Tricia; Koshy, Mohit Jerry; Lara, Andre 
Thank you for your email and for taking the time to follow up on our recent 
conversation. I appreciate the opportunity to align and move forward with clarity. I’ve 
included everyone in this response to ensure full transparency and alignment across the 
team and management.
I want to start by asking for clarification. Based on the tone and language of your 
message, it sounds as though my job may be at risk. If that is the case, I’d like to 
understand that clearly so I can respond appropriately and take the necessary steps.
I also want to share my perspective. While I’ve believed I was fulfilling my 
responsibilities —and often going above and beyond —I now understand there are core 
areas of the Product Owner role specifically that I may not have fully executed in line 
with expectations. That said, it’s become clear to me that there has been a fundamental 
disconnect in how my role was defined from the start within this team, how 
responsibilities have been communicated to me, and the level of support provided. 
Much of what I’ve focused on has been based on what I was led to believe were my 
responsibilities and was trained to do. I’ve acted in good faith based on that 
understanding. Now, I'm being led to believe that is not the case. I’ve been requesting 
realignment around duties and team responsibilities for weeks now.
This past year has been a significant learning experience, and I’m continuing to grow in 
my understanding of what the Product Owner role does and does not include. As 
someone still early in their career, I acknowledge there are things I could have done 
better. At the same time, I believe greater clarity and guidance —especially around core 
responsibilities and team roles —could have helped set me up for success from the start.
I will complete the Performance Assessment you shared and respond to the question, 
“What do you need in order to be successful in this role?” by the August 8 deadline. I 
also plan to include the additional work and responsibilities I’ve been managing that 
were not reflected in the assessment document. These tasks were introduced to me as 
part of my role, and I’ve dedicated considerable effort toward them. I believe it’s 
important to have a full and accurate picture of my contributions so we can realign 
expectations and responsibilities appropriately.
Above all, I am committed to doing the work necessary to improve. I take this feedback 
seriously, and I’m actively working on ways to strengthen communication, transparency, 
and execution in my role. I look forward to continuing this discussion and working 
together to ensure we’re all on the same page moving forward.
Greg Homstad, IT Product Owner
BOM Portal
IT Finance –Controlling and Costing
Greg.Homstad@tyson.com
Espinoza, Alma Fernanda
Homstad, Greg 
   Performance Page 194    
Homstad, Greg 
Hi Greg,
I appreciate your patience in awaiting my follow -up, thank you again for your time on 
Wednesday, July 30. I’d like to share some reflections from that meeting and outline our 
next steps.
While you feel you've exceeded expectations in your role, I want to be transparent: from 
my perspective as your manager, those expectations have not been consistently met. 
There appears to be a disconnect between your self -assessment and my observations, 
particularly around timeliness of task completion and fulfillment of core responsibilities 
for the Product Owner I role. Areas such as writing and validating Jira tasks, managing 
the backlog, and establishing yourself as a key contact for developers and stakeholders 
continue to require attention.
To help us align, I’ve included the Performance Assessment –IT Product Owner I file. 
Your input here is essential, not only to understand your perspective, but to help us 
identify opportunities for support and growth. Feel free to add any other insights that 
you think would be helpful.
Once completed, please send the assessment back to me via email and include a brief 
response to the following question: "What do you need in order to be successful in 
this role?" .
Please submit your evaluation by Friday, August 8.
Looking ahead, I want to be clear: we need to see immediate and sustained 
improvement. If that doesn't happen, we will need to consider appropriate next steps.
Thanks, 
This email chain my manager made zero effort to complete what I asked of her despite reminding her 
multiple times. This is my performance assessment of myself below. 
Essential Duties 
and 
Responsibilities: TM 
Assessment 
(0-5) -Do 
this first TM Comments Manager 
Assessm
ent -Do 
this 2nd Manage
r NotesSuggeste
d 
Actions -
Do this 
3rd
1 Requirements 
Gathering: Learn 
and observe how 
to work closely 
with 
stakeholders, 
including 
customers, sales, 
marketing, and 
engineering 
teams, to gather 
and prioritize 
product 
requirements.4 -
Proficient: 
Has 
demonstrat
ed the task 
satisfactorily
.Evidence –All requirements 
gathering I've done for 
UX/UI, validated and part of 
regular working cards. Prior 
IT experience gives clear 
theoretical understanding. 
In practice, need to be more 
vocal when met with 
pushback or lack of 
trust/confidence.
2 Product Planning: 
Assist in creating 
and maintaining 
the product 
roadmap, 
defining features, 
and release 
timelines based 
on business 
objectives and 
user needs2 -
Attempted: 
Has 
attempted 
the task but 
with 
significant 
errors or 
requires 
substantial 
guidance.Attempted alignment with 
coworkers. Happy to assist, 
but not a core PO 
responsibility; this should be 
clarified. Assistance 
expectations too broad —
need clear boundaries 
between core 
responsibilities and career 
growth/training. Have asked 
to assist but not included 
(screenshots attachable). 
Ultimately Andre’s role as 
acting Product Manager —
should not be rated on 
responsibilities outside PO 
scope.
3 Cross -Functional 
Collaboration: 
Collaborate with 
cross -functional 
teams, including 
design, 
engineering, 
marketing, and 
sales, to ensure 
alignment and 
execution of 
product initiatives4 -
Proficient: 
Has 
demonstrat
ed the task 
satisfactorily
.Kay demonstrated a process 
that should be followed. 
Some collaboration hasn’t 
followed process due to 
PM/trainer guidance. 
Improvement: follow up 
with Kay consistently; 
require attendance at all 
UX/UI meetings. Currently 
some meetings happen 
without me as Andre has 
taken on this task.
4 Feature 
Prioritization: 
Understand how 
to prioritize 
features and 
enhancements 
based on their 
impact on user 
experience, 
business value, 
and technical 
feasibility.0 -No 
exposure: 
Has not had 
exposure to 
doing the 
task.Understand process and 
how to do it; however, this is 
Product Manager’s 
responsibility in Agile. PO 
role is to break down 
defined features. No issues 
here.
5 Project 
Coordination: 
Observe and 
learn to 
coordinate 
project activities, 
tasks, and 
timelines, 
ensuring that 
milestones are 
met, and 
deliverables are 
completed on 
time and within 
scope0 -No 
exposure: 
Has not had 
exposure to 
doing the 
task.Not a PM; unclear why this 
is included. Am I expected to 
audit teammate work? No 
training provided. Can assist, 
but not a core responsibility.
6 Documentation: 
Create and 
maintain product 
documentation, 
including user 
stories, feature 
specifications, 
and release 
notes, to 
communicate 
requirements and 
updates to 5 -Excellent: 
Has 
demonstrat
ed the task 
and 
performed 
very well.Proven ability to document. 
Definition of done needs 
clarification —often met with 
suggestions instead of 
substantial changes from 
PM. Minor changes should 
be new backlog items. All 
documentation 
reviewed/validated by PM. 
Recently only creating cards 
for myself and Ayesha per 
 ern’s request.
   Performance Page 195    
updates to 
stakeholders. ern’s request.
7 Testing and 
Validation: Learn 
and observe how 
user acceptance 
testing (UAT) and 
validation of 
product features 
work to ensure 
they meet quality 
standards and 
user 
expectations.5 -Excellent: 
Has 
demonstrat
ed the task 
and 
performed 
very well.Team improvement needed 
in managing changing 
priorities. Need high -level 
process clarity to avoid loss 
of detail. Reference 
Andre/Kay conversations.
8 Performance 
Monitoring: 
Understanding 
and assisting in 
defining and 
tracking key 
performance 
indicators (KPIs) 
and metrics to 
measure product 
performance and 
success.2 -
Attempted: 
Has 
attempted 
the task but 
with 
significant 
errors or 
requires 
substantial 
guidance.Not looped into many 
needed conversations. Team 
needs awareness of 
intended audience.
9 Continuous 
Improvement: 
Continuously seek 
opportunities for 
improvement, 
gathering 
feedback from 
users and 
stakeholders to 
iterate on 
product features 
and enhance the 
overall user 
experience5 -Excellent: 
Has 
demonstrat
ed the task 
and 
performed 
very well.Regularly seeks 
improvement and feedback. 
Enrolled in product 
management certificate 
course to enhance 
understanding and growth. 
Evidence of initiative in 
many conversations.
10 Learning and 
Development: 
Stay informed 
about industry 
trends, best 
practices, and 
emerging 
technologies in 
product 
management, 
seeking out 
learning 
opportunities to 
grow and develop 
in the role5 -Excellent: 
Has 
demonstrat
ed the task 
and 
performed 
very well.Demonstrated adherence to 
best practices and desire for 
growth. Improvement area: 
reference best practice 
documentation explicitly. 
Recently audited coworker’s 
cards and identified gaps.
11 Customer 
Support: Provide 
support to 
customer -facing 
teams, including 
responding to 
customer 
inquiries, 
addressing 
product -related 
issues, and 
assisting with 
customer training 
and onboarding.5 -Excellent: 
Has 
demonstrat
ed the task 
and 
performed 
very well.Regular contact with Doug. 
Prioritizes customer needs. 
Raises concerns about 
business pushback and 
significant issues affecting 
timelines.
12 Team 
Collaboration: 
Collaborate with 
product 
management 
peers and other 
team members, 
sharing 
knowledge, 
insights, and best 
practices to foster 
a culture of 
collaboration and 
continuous 
learning.3 -Needs 
Improvemen
t: Has 
demonstrat
ed the task 
but needs 
improvemen
t.Can do this, but processes 
for ensuring correct 
involvement in BOM Forge 
functional discussions need 
definition.
13 Perform other 
assigned job -
related duties 
that align with 
our organization's 
vision, mission, 
and values and 
fall within your 
scope of practice.4 -
Proficient: 
Has 
demonstrat
ed the task 
satisfactorily
.Currently performing ~80% 
analysis/support work vs. 
20% PO responsibilities. 
Only recently aligning 
responsibilities. After being 
asked to be aligned multiple 
times through both proudct 
manager and team manager. 
Special Skills: 
1 Methodology: 
Foundational 
knowledge of 
Agile Product and 
Waterfall 
methodology.3 -Needs 
Improvemen
t: Has 
demonstrat
ed the task 
but needs 
improvemen
t.New to role; lack of 
understanding now more 
than ever. Belief was we 
were moving away from 
waterfall—needs 
confirmation. Clear 
separation of concerns 
needed from where we 
where to where we are to 
be.
2 Communication: 
Effective 
communication, 
able to present to 
team and 
management.0 -No 
exposure: 
Has not had 
exposure to 
doing the 
task.No opportunity to present 
despite asking (e.g., 
SteerCo). Andre often 
critiques work and then 
presents it himself. 
Disconnect from priorities.
3 Decision -Making: 
Value -based 
decision -making.0 -No 
exposure: 
Has not had 
exposure to 
doing the 
task.Treated reconciliation report 
as high priority until 
informed otherwise. 
4 Problem -solving: 
Analytical skills 
for diagnosing 
and solving 
issues.4 -
Proficient: 
Has 
demonstrat
ed the task 
satisfactorily
.Learned SAP DB related to 
PP; schema definitions, SAP –
BOM Portal interactions, 
identified issues, and solved 
assigned tasks. Wants more 
opportunity to use skills and 
be heard.
5 Organization: 
Managing time, 
prioritizing tasks, 
and handling 
responsibilities.4 -
Proficient: 
Has 
demonstrat
ed the task 
satisfactorilyEvidence in all tasks that 
have been validated. 
   Performance Page 196    
satisfactorily
.
6 Learning: Self -
motivated and 
willing to learn 
new technologies 
and adapt to 
change.5 -Excellent: 
Has 
demonstrat
ed the task 
and 
performed 
very well.Matches Q10; adaptable to 
change. Team adaptation 
issues are external, not 
personal.
Right Behaviors: 
R Results 4 -
Proficient: 
Has 
demonstrat
ed the task 
satisfactorily
.Validated by Andre’s 
recommendations; 
produced significant results 
for cost accounting BOM –
SAP reconciliation.
I Innovation 4 -
Proficient: 
Has 
demonstrat
ed the task 
satisfactorily
.Worked with Fernanda on 
GPT implementation plan 
and idea briefly; not fully 
dedicated yet —functional 
aspects need definition and 
closure first
G Growth Mindset 4 -
Proficient: 
Has 
demonstrat
ed the task 
satisfactorily
.
H Humility 5 -Excellent: 
Has 
demonstrat
ed the task 
and 
performed 
very well.Seeks to understand others’ 
perspectives, especially 
Andre’s preferences for 
formatting/verbiage. 
Especially when not related 
to scope of work or 
acceptance criteria
T Teamwork 4 -
Proficient: 
Has 
demonstrat
ed the task 
satisfactorily
.Needs improvement; 
expects management/ 
product manager support 
after validation. Feels 
disconnected from remote 
team and manager who 
doesn’t see daily work. 
Needs structure for efficient 
collaboration and clearer 
distribution of authority. Not 
to be micromanaged and 
additional tasks to be 
handed as a result of those 
micromanagements. 
Hello Greg, 
Following up on our recent 1:1, I've reviewed LinkedIn Learning and compiled a list of course 
that I believe will support your continued growth as a Product Owner. 
Agile Product Owner Role: Techniques•
Agile Product Owner Role: Foundations•
How to Fix Bad Agile•
Product Management Tips•
Agile Analysis Weekly Tips•
When you have some free time, please aim to complete at least two of these trainings by the 
end of the month. I'm confident they will provide valuable insights and help strengthen your 
skillset. 
Once you've completed at least two courses from the list please reply to this email to confirm 
and include a quick summary of what you learned from each. I'd love to hear your takeaways. 
Completed 2 of these trainings and was able to deliver when I said I would. 
   Performance Page 197    
Follow -Up on Performance Expectations
Espinoza, Alma Fernanda
Homstad, Greg 
Hi Greg,
Thanks for sharing the information and for joining our follow -up meeting on Tuesday, 
June 24.
As discussed, it’s important we continue to set clear expectations ahead of our next 
check -in on Wednesday, July 30 (invite sent). While some of the previous goals 
weren’t met due to your focus on the Reconciliation Report, which we understand, we 
still need your support in evolving your role as a Product Owner.
Specifically, having both you and Andre involved in Jira validations at the end of each 
sprint would prevent the current overload on Andre. Your contribution here is key.
Since you'll be working remotely for a couple of weeks, please ensure frequent 
communication with the team and flag any risks or delays that could affect your tasks
We now recognize the Recon Report is more complex than anticipated, so please take 
into account Andre’s suggestions moving forward.
To better align efforts and measure progress, here are your key goals before our 
next evaluation:
Complete the SAP Reconciliation Report Documentation.
Document join logic and naming standards used for table relationships in 
GCP, including integration with SAP Text tables (per Andre’s 
recommendation).••
List the key blockers and challenges you've faced, and who you believe could help 
resolve them.•
Complete all Jira tasks assigned for the next sprint period (approx. July 2 –16). •
Write, track, and complete 2 user stories of your own. •
Validate at least 4 user stories from your teammates to help distribute sprint 
closure efforts•
Attend additional KT sessions by Joss, Marcelo, or Andre, questions will be asked 
during these to ensure understanding.•
Please give these goals your best effort. They’re designed to help us maintain 
momentum and keep delivering value from a Product Owner perspective.
If there’s anything you disagree with or want to clarify, let’s connect and talk it through.
Thanks,
Fernanda Espinoza, IT Operations Developer Manager
Costing & Controlling -BOM Portal 
Fernanda.Espinoza@tyson.com
Homstad, Greg
McCoy, Tricia 
Espinoza, Alma Fernanda 
Hi Fernanda and Tricia,
Here’s my updated list of areas where I would benefit from further training or a deeper 
dive:
APBs (Assembly Processing BOMs):
Walkthrough on APB management in SAP and BOM Portal —how they’re created, used, 
and common troubleshooting scenarios.
Unchecked Inventory Points:
Guidance on identifying, setting up, and correcting unchecked inventory points in the 
system, and understanding their impact on reporting and reconciliation.
Phantom BOMs:
More in -depth training on how Phantom BOMs are handled in SAP and BOM Portal, 
especially in terms of processing, structure, and reporting.
Seconds Materials:
Best practices for tracking, reporting, and reconciling seconds materials 
(byproducts/second quality) across SAP and BOM Portal.
Engineering AOP (Annual Operating Plan):
How annual operating plan updates are managed in both systems/
HashiCorp Vault Endpoints:
Review of our current Vault endpoints, authentication, securely retrieving/storing 
secrets, and integrating Vault with our application workflows.
Splunk & API Integrations:
Best practices for using Splunk for monitoring/troubleshooting, and working with APIs 
for system integration and automation.
Insomnia (API Client):
Walkthrough on using Insomnia for our API workflows —setting up requests, managing 
environments, and troubleshooting.
Cloning from GitLab:
Step-by-step instructions on cloning the application repo, setting up the local 
development environment, and collaborating with the team.
Thanks for your help in getting me up to speed on these areas!
Greg Homstad, IT Product Owner
   Performance Page 198    
Greg Homstad, IT Product Owner
IT Finance –Controlling and Costing
Greg.Homstad@tyson.com
Homstad, Greg
McCoy, Tricia 
Espinoza, Alma Fernanda 
Thanks for the follow -up on this email, it got lost in my inbox. 
Just confirming I’ll have the updated training recap list to you both by Monday at the 
latest. I know it’s past the original deadline —apologies for the delay. I’ve had to focus 
on the reconciliation report and due to the GCP downtime today I have more work to 
get caught up this weekend.
Fernanda, thanks for the feedback on work -from -home requests. I do have an exception 
to work from home once a week, and I’ll continue to limit my requests to that. 
Otherwise, I’ll prioritize being in the office to support the team.
Thanks for your patience.
Best,
Greg
Greg Homstad, IT Product Owner
IT Finance –Controlling and Costing
Greg.Homstad@tyson.com
McCoy, Tricia
Thu 6/12/2025 4:47 PM
Greg, I haven’t seen the training list from you yet. I need you to send me that list on Monday. If there 
are gaps in your training, we need to get that resolved ASAP. Thanks, Tricia
Espinoza, Alma Fernanda
Homstad, Greg 
McCoy, Tricia 
Hi Greg,
Before I head off on leave, I wanted to follow up on my previous email regarding the 
training recap list. The deadline was set for Friday, May 30 , and I haven't yet received it. 
I understand you’ve been busy with the reconciliation report, but having the list is 
essential so I can coordinate with the team on who’s available to lead the training. When 
I’m out, could you please ensure that Tricia receives the list by Friday, June 13 ? Your 
help on this is really appreciated.
I also recognize that the reconciliation report has been a challenge. If you run into any 
snags or have concerns, let's address them sooner rather than later. It would be great if 
you could proactively work through any issues, and ideally, complete the tasks before 
the deadlines. We are here if you need to bounce off ideas or need extra support.
Please keep in mind the expectations defined in my previous email, we will review these 
together once I’m back on June 23. 
One more note: I've noticed you've been requesting work from home frequently lately. 
I completely understand the need for flexibility, but I’d like you to save that option for 
special situations whenever possible. As we discussed, keeping the team together, 
especially working on the same hours as Zach, is important for fostering open 
communication and a strong team culture.
Please feel free to reach out if you have any questions or need to discuss any of this 
further. Thanks so much for your efforts, and I’m looking forward to seeing everything 
come together!
Fernanda Espinoza, IT Operations Developer Manager
Costing & Controlling -BOM Portal 
Fernanda.Espinoza@tyson.com
Espinoza, Alma Fernanda
Homstad, Greg 
Hello Greg,
Thank you for your time this morning. As discussed, I am outlining the areas that require 
your attention and improvement.
SAP Reconciliation Report During our call, you raised a concern about why Ayesha is 
not handling the query part. After researching, I understand that Ayesha should model 
the report, but the query part should be driven by you. Given your expertise with the 
BOM portal and your knowledge of the database and process flow, it would be more 
efficient for you to handle this aspect. If you disagree, please let me know so I can 
schedule a call with Jerry and Andre to address your concern.
Working Hours I would appreciate it if you could align your office hours with Zach's, as 
this will foster a sense of team belonging. In Mexico, we agreed to work from 7 AM to 4 
PM. Maintaining these hours is crucial for team connectivity.
Training You have expressed the need for additional training. Please provide me with a 
list of topics where you feel reinforcement is necessary. Once I have your list, I will 
coordinate with Andre, Joceline, or Marcelo to cover these items and reinforce your 
knowledge. Deadline to deliver the list: Friday May 30.
Product Owner Activities I will discuss with Andre to delegate more Product Owner 
activities to you, providing clear expectations. These activities will involve user story 
creation and validation analysis.
Specific Goals for Next Evaluation To set more specific goals for our next evaluation, 
please focus on the following:
Complete the SAP Reconciliation Report.•
Work from home only when absolutely necessary.•
Answer questions after each KT session provided.•
Write, track, and complete at least four user stories created by you.•
Validate at least 2 user stories. •
Request less guidance and start guiding others.•
I have scheduled a meeting for Tuesday, June 24 , to evaluate your progress over the 
month. We will identify wins and areas for improvement to ensure we stay on track.
Thank you for your flexibility and willingness to work on these items. I truly appreciate 
your efforts and will do my best to provide you with the necessary support to succeed in 
your Product Owner role.
If you disagree with any point mentioned, please let me know, and we can connect to 
discuss it further.  
   Performance Page 199    
   Performance Page 200    
Hi Greg,
I understand that you are in a challenging situation with the Performance Improvement Plan 
(PIP) and want to address it effectively. Here's a structured approach to help you fight the PIP 
by presenting your case clearly and professionally:
1. Frame Your Position
Start with respect and acknowledge the PIP:
Acknowledge Receipt : "Thank you for the PIP document and the opportunity to address 
the concerns raised."•
State Disagreement : "While I take this feedback seriously, I respectfully disagree with 
certain points as they do not align with my actual performance and documented 
outcomes."•
2. Gather Evidence
Pull together hard proof from FY25:
Completed Goals : Highlight that all your official goals were completed early and marked 
as “Completed” in the system.•
Recognition : Reference Ken McCreary’s May 2 shout -out, SteerCo presentations, or any 
stakeholder feedback.•
Deliverables : Provide Jira ticket numbers, SQL models, functional specs, or Power BI 
outputs you authored.•
Certifications & Training : Mention ITF+ certification, 10+ Workday trainings, LinkedIn 
Learning, and Product Management certificate enrollment.•
Engagement : Participation in EFIT events, Community of Practice, etc. •
3. Contrast Against PIP Claims
Take each area where your manager said you’re underperforming and rebut it with specific 
counterexamples:
Speed of Delivery
Manager's Claim : Missed deadlines, low task completion. •
Your Counter : Show on -time completion of FY25 AOP deliverables, early completion dates 
(08/29/25 vs. 09/30/25 deadlines), and working SQL reconciliations validated in business 
sessions.•
Acknowledge : Yes, some exploratory tickets shifted, but emphasize that exploration was 
necessary due to restricted GCP access and poor documentation. That context should 
have been recognized.•
Product Owner Responsibilities
Manager's Claim : Backlog not maintained, not validating stories. •
Your Counter : Reference your role in facilitating backlog refinement with Andre, creating 
functional specs, validating data models with Ayesha, and translating business survey 
feedback (Angelica’s responses) into actionable backlog items.•
Emphasize : Your proactive alignment with Agile frameworks and your request for role 
clarity documentation (to avoid overlap between PO/PM/Analyst).•
Adaptability & Growth
Manager's Claim : Avoids new tasks, passive.Performance Improvement Plan 
Monday, September 15, 2025 2:33 PM
   Performance Page 201    
Manager's Claim : Avoids new tasks, passive. •
Your Counter : List how you took on SAP table exploration, routing/operations mapping, 
Power BI collaboration, and professional certifications —all outside your initial 
reconciliation scope.•
Show Examples : Adapting to shifting ownership expectations (e.g., when reconciliation 
epics moved multiple times).•
Proactivity & Self -Learning
Manager's Claim : Relies too much on others, misses ownership. •
Your Counter : Show initiatives you led without being asked —reconciliation query 
frameworks in BigQuery, functional spec drafts, requirement gathering notes, training 
documentation, survey design for Ann & Doug, etc.•
4. Leverage the Discrepancy
Performance Record : Show that you exceeded FY25 goals and led in RIGHT behaviors. •
Contradiction : Highlight the contradiction between exceeding goals and being 
underperforming enough to justify a PIP.•
5. Next Steps
Draft a Written Rebuttal : Include evidence attached (Jira tickets, emails, SteerCo decks, 
certifications).•
Request HR -Mediated Meeting : To review the discrepancies. •
Keep Tone Factual and Professional :  rame this as “misalignment in perception vs. 
documented outcomes.”•
Draft Rebuttal Letter/Email
Here’s a draft you can use to structure your rebuttal:
Subject: Response to Performance Improvement Plan
Dear [Manager's Name],
Thank you for providing the Performance Improvement Plan (PIP) and the opportunity to 
address the concerns raised. While I take this feedback seriously, I respectfully disagree with 
certain points as they do not align with my actual performance and documented outcomes.
Completed Goals
All my official goals (Customer & Consumer Obsession, Data & Digital, Operational 
Excellence, Development, Engagement) were completed early and marked as 
“Completed” in the system.•
Recognition
I received a public shout -out from Ken McCreary on May 2, recognizing my contributions. •
Deliverables
Below are specific deliverables I have completed:
Jira ticket numbers: [List of Jira tickets]•
SQL models: [Details of SQL models]•
Functional specs: [Details of functional specs]•
Power BI outputs: [Details of Power BI outputs]••
Certifications & Training
ITF+ certification, 10+ Workday trainings, LinkedIn Learning courses, and enrollment in a 
Product Management certificate course.•
Engagement
Active participation in EFIT events and the Analyst/Product Owner Community of Practice.•
Addressing Specific Claims
   Performance Page 202    
Addressing Specific Claims
Speed of Delivery
Claim : Missed deadlines, low task completion.•
Counter : On-time completion of FY25 AOP deliverables, early completion dates (08/29/25 
vs. 09/30/25 deadlines), and validated SQL reconciliations in business sessions.•
Product Owner Responsibilities
Claim : Backlog not maintained, not validating stories.•
Counter : Facilitated backlog refinement, created functional specs, validated data models, 
and translated business survey feedback into actionable backlog items.•
Adaptability & Growth
Claim : Avoids new tasks, passive.•
Counter : Took on SAP table exploration, routing/operations mapping, Power BI 
collaboration, and professional certifications.•
Proactivity & Self -Learning
Claim : Relies too much on others, misses ownership.•
Counter : Led initiatives such as reconciliation query frameworks in BigQuery, functional 
spec drafts, requirement gathering notes, and training documentation.•
Next Steps
I request an HR -mediated meeting to review these discrepancies and align on expectations 
moving forward. I am committed to improving and ensuring alignment with the team’s goals.
Thank you for your time and consideration.
Best regards,
Greg Homstad
IT Product Owner
BOM Portal –IT Finance, Controlling & Costing
Greg.Homstad@tyson.com
Would you like me to help further refine this draft or provide additional details? Let me know 
how I can assist you further.   
   Performance Page 203    
Requirements Documentation & Process Clarity (25%)
Collaborate with stakeholders to gather and document business requirements and functional 
specifications.
Use standardized templates to ensure clarity and consistency.
Maintain a centralized repository for requirements and process documentation.
Target Dates: 
Update every 1:1
Survey/Feedback to be completed by Oct 10 and review results by Oct 17.
Means of Measure: 
At least 90% of requirements are documented within agreed timelines.
Stakeholder survey/feedback with a minimum satisfaction score of 4/5 regarding clarity and 
completeness of documentation.
Stakeholder Collaboration & Communication (20%)
Schedule and lead regular meetings with stakeholders to review progress and confirm alignment on 
requirements
Simplify complex technical requirements into clear business terms for non -technical audiences.
Provide concise written and verbal updates to stakeholders.
Target Dates: 
Conduct stakeholder meetings at least weekly during requirements gathering.
Meeting notes shared within 24 hours after each session.
Means of Measure: 
Attendance, punctuality, and participation in 100% of assigned stakeholder meetings .
Stakeholder survey feedback showing improvement in communication clarity (minimum 4/5 
rating).
Documented meeting notes/action items shared within 24 hours of each session.
Project Delivery & Testing Support (10%)
Contribute to project delivery by ensuring requirements traceability from gathering through testing.
Develop and execute test plans.
Track and report on testing outcomes in collaboration with QA/technical teams.
Target Dates: 
Complete initial linkage requirements to planned test cases within 2 weeks of requirements 
gathering                                                           .
Develop and document assigned test plans and test cases by Day 25.
Execute assigned test cases and provide outcome documentation by Day 40.
Means of Measure: 
100% of assigned test cases documented and executed within project timelines.
Zero critical defects missed due to incomplete or unclear requirements.Performance Expectations
Monday, September 15, 2025 2:52 PM
   Performance Page 204    
Zero critical defects missed due to incomplete or unclear requirements.
Traceability matrix completed and validated before project go -live.
Assigned Support for Architect (45%)
Work side by side with the Architect to complete assignments as delegated (e.g., requirements 
clarification, documentation, validation, or analysis).
Deliver assignments within agreed timelines and according to provided instructions.
Seek clarification proactively to ensure work meets expected quality standards.
Target Dates: 
Assignments delegated throughout the PIP period must be delivered within the timeline agreed upon 
with the Architect.
Weekly check -ins with the Architect to confirm progress and adjust priorities as needed.
All deliverables completed no later than Day 45 of the PIP period.
Means of Measure: 
Feedback from the Architect indicating satisfactory performance on at least 90% of delegated tasks 
(minimum rating of 4/5).
100% of assignments completed within agreed timelines.
Deliverables demonstrate accuracy and completeness, requiring minimal rework.
Question
Question
The supervisor shall meet with the Team Member during the course of the performance 
improvement plan to gauge progress against the objectives and provide feedback to the Team 
Member. These meetings shall occur at the supervisor’s direction, and on a bi -weekly basis, at 
a minimum. For Performance Improvement Plans of shorter duration, e.g. 30 days, progress 
should be measured on a weekly basis. Human Resources attendance at these meetings is 
required for the initial meeting, and encouraged, but not mandatory for subsequent follow up 
meetings. Human Resources should be kept apprised of all discussions for the entirety of the 
PIP.
This Performance Improvement Plan shall remain in effect for:
   Performance Page 205    
 Core Product / Agile Certifications (Very Strong for Product Owners)
Certification Why It's Good
Certified Scrum Product 
Owner (CSPO)The classic Product Owner cert. Deepens your skill running agile teams, 
backlog grooming, user stories, working with stakeholders. Highly 
respected.
SAFe Product 
Owner/Product Manager 
(SAFe POPM)If you're in an enterprise company (like Tyson), scaling agile is huge. SAFe 
teaches enterprise agile frameworks beyond just Scrum.
Professional Scrum 
Product Owner I (PSPO I)Focused more tightly on the Product Owner role than the general Scrum 
Master certs. Great if you want proof you know how to drive value in an 
agile environment.
 Business / IT Alignment Certifications (For Strategy + Analysis Skills)
Certification Why It's Good
ECBA (Entry Certificate in 
Business Analysis)If you want to grow your business analysis skills (requirements gathering, 
stakeholder management, process improvement). Lightweight, but very 
good for a PO.
CBAP (Certified Business 
Analysis Professional) (later 
on)Once you have more years' experience —CBAP is heavyweight and 
earns respect for senior BA/Product roles.
PMI-ACP (Agile Certified 
Practitioner)Broader agile certification covering Scrum, Kanban, Lean. Shows you're 
flexible across methodologies.
 Enterprise Systems (SAP/Integration Side) —[Since you already deal with SAP BOM Portal!]
Certification Why It's Good
SAP Certified Application Associate –
Business Process Integration with SAP 
S/4HANAWould strengthen your technical understanding of SAP 
systems and integrations, making you a killer bridge between 
tech and business.
SAP Certified Associate –SAP Activate 
Project ManagerFocused on SAP project implementation. Great if you 
manage SAP -related projects as a Product Owner.
 Top 3 Recommendations for You Specifically:
Certified Scrum Product Owner (CSPO) —the single best "stamp" for a Product Owner. 1.
SAFe POPM —if you want to stand out at large enterprises (Tyson, etc.) 2.
SAP Business Process Integration (if you want to double -down on SAP expertise) 3.
Visual Cheat Sheet for You:
Focus Best CertCertifications & Coursework
Thursday, April 24, 2025 9:07 AM
   My Learning Page 206    
Focus Best Cert
Stronger Agile/Product Skills CSPO, PSPO
Broader Enterprise Agile SAFe POPM
More Business Analysis ECBA
More SAP/Technical SAP Business Process Integration
Would you want me to also recommend a path based on time vs payoff (e.g., which ones are quickest vs 
which ones pay most over 2 -3 years)?
It might help you prioritize better depending on how fast you want to move!  
   My Learning Page 207    
Frequently Asked Questions -Business Analyst •
BAFunda
mentals_...
Role of the business analyst
Change agent –helps organization makes change
Enable change within organization
Come in understand the vision, look at where there at today
Gap analysis –what steps to take to get from where at today to where they want to go
Objectives and goals of business as well as stakeholders ie customers, users, etc
Help translate into terms into whoever is creating the solution
Translating needs into functional Ideas
Role is broad, gap analysis, design, implementation, testing, rolling out, training, support after
Example: Company Vision Wants all Work From Home
Analyst understands vision, needs of users; what they need access to, etc
Adjusting processes
Understand what the system is what it does and what they want that future system to be and then 
helping them get thereSection 1: Overview
Thursday, September 12, 2024 8:56 AM
   Business Analysis Fundamentals -ECBA, CCBA, CBAP Page 208    
Role of the business analyst
Change agent –helps organization makes change
Enable change within organization
Come in understand the vision, look at where there at today
Gap analysis –what steps to take to get from where at today to where they want to go
Objectives and goals of business as well as stakeholders ie customers, users, etc
Help translate into terms into whoever is creating the solution
Translating needs into functional Ideas
Role is broad, gap analysis, design, implementation, testing, rolling out, training, support after
Example: Company Vision Wants all Work From Home
Analyst understands vision, needs of users; what they need access to, etc
Adjusting processes
Understand what the system is what it does and what they want that future system to be and then 
helping them get there
Types of business analysts roles
Business Process Analyst –models business processes, process models uses workflow and process 
engines or what -if scenarios, future process flows, business process engineer, workflow engineer, 
business process modeler
Requirements Analyst –works with stakeholders and end users to illicit understand identify and 
document needs and wants of organizations of users, bridges role of business and IT, use IT solutions to 
solve problems, requirements engineer, functional architect
Systems Analyst –create functional specifications define how a system will do what, works with techs to 
create a solution 
Data Analyst –mines business data to find patterns/correlations between systems, design create reports 
to help business execs in decision making, data modelers, bi analyst, data wharehouse analyst
User Experience Analyst –designs interface, focuses on efficiency and ease of use, understands the end -
user's behavior  uI design web designer, usability professional. 
6 key skills
Communication –oral and written, business analyst is a bridge 
Negotiation –involved in projects, resolution is agreeable by both parties
Problem solving –glorified problem solver, recommend solutions, break down into manageable 
components
Facilitation –meetings, direct, present, and achieve meeting goal
Organization –different projects, different people, good notes to reference during and after project
Critical thinking –analyze findings and come up with solutionsSection 2: Basics
Thursday, September 12, 2024 9:27 AM
   Business Analysis Fundamentals -ECBA, CCBA, CBAP Page 209    
Overview of Change
Change is a transformation in response to an identified need. 
It typically follows this pattern:
Problem identification.1.
Change implementation.2.
Solution creation to address the problem and identified needs.3.
Changes can involve:
New technology.•
Process optimization.•
New products and services.•
Risks and Investments:
Change comes with risks, time, resources, and monetary investments.•
Predictive vs. Adaptive Approaches
Predictive Approach
Goal: Attempt to foresee the future and work in a procedural manner.•
Process:
Define the problem.1.
Design the solution.2.
Create the solution.3.
Test the solution.4.
Roll out the solution.5.•
Stages:
Analysis, Design, Creation, Testing, Implementation.••
Benefits:
Not all team members need to be engaged in every phase.•
Provides natural checkpoints for sponsors to adjust plans before the next phase.••
Constraints:
The solution development takes time, delaying value production.•
Difficulty updating requirements if business needs change.••
Adaptive Approach
Goal: Embrace change and remain flexible to changing circumstances.•
Characteristics:
Allows new requirements to emerge during the process.•
Focuses on deploying small, incremental pieces of value.•
Provides hands -on user experience and feedback to shape solutions. ••
Constraints:
Difficult to budget.•
Uncertainty about when the solution is complete.••
Common Predictive Frameworks
Waterfall Method
Stages:
Analysis: Requirements elicitation, analysis, and documentation.1.
Design: Outlining how the solution will work and function.2.
Creation: Building the solution.3.
Testing: Resolving defects and issues to ensure readiness.4.•Section 3: Approaching Change
Thursday, September 12, 2024 9:28 AM
   Business Analysis Fundamentals -ECBA, CCBA, CBAP Page 210    
Testing: Resolving defects and issues to ensure readiness.4.
Implementation: Deploying the finalized solution.5.
Advantages:
Linear progress provides clarity on project progression.•
Defined checkpoints for validating outputs.•
Predictable timeline for organizational preparedness.••
Disadvantages:
Rigid, with limited flexibility for changing requirements.••
Industries Using Waterfall:
Construction, Regulatory Compliance, Manufacturing, Infrastructure Development, 
Government Projects.••
V Model (Verification and Validation Model)
Stages:
Define Requirements.1.
Design Solution.2.
Develop Solution.3.
Test Modules.4.
Test Solution.5.
User Acceptance.6.•
Characteristics:
Emphasizes a relationship between development, creation, and testing.•
Suitable for industries with strict compliance or safety standards.••
Industries Using V Model:
Medical Device Development, Aerospace & Defense, Automotive Software, Government 
Projects, Process Automation, Critical Infrastructure Projects.••
Extended V Model:
Includes an analysis phase at the beginning and a benefits phase at the end to ensure 
business objectives are met.••
Common Adaptive Frameworks
Scrum
Purpose: Optimized for delivering, developing, and sustaining solutions to complex problems. •
Pillars:
Transparency: Clear understanding and communication of the process. 1.
Inspection: Regularly reviewing progress towards goals. 2.
Adaptation: Adjusting based on learnings to shape the solution and team. 3.•
Iterations: Conducted in sprints with prioritized backlogs and daily meetings. •
Kanban
Purpose: Focuses on providing early value to the organization. •
Features:
Kanban board with columns to show the status of tasks.•
Team members self -assign tasks and move them as progress is made. •
Focus on completing work in progress before starting new work.••
Scrumban
Combination: Merges Scrum and Kanban features. •
Characteristics:
Self-assignment of tasks.•
Adaptable to fit company needs.••
Scaled Agile Framework (SAFe)
Purpose: Used for larger organizations to handle extensive changes, requiring communication, 
coordination, and team alignment.•
Advantages: Good for highly complex solutions but may involve excessive hierarchy. •
DevOps
Focus: Practices, principles, and cultural values fostering collaboration and enhancing efforts to •
   Business Analysis Fundamentals -ECBA, CCBA, CBAP Page 211    
Focus: Practices, principles, and cultural values fostering collaboration and enhancing efforts to 
deliver high -quality software quickly and reliably.•
Stages:
Planning: Requirements gathering and definition.1.
Coding: Implementing features.2.
Building: Compiling and creating deployable artifacts.3.
Testing: Integration and acceptance testing.4.
Deploying: Releasing to production.5.
Monitoring: Identifying and resolving issues.6.•
Culture: Continuous improvement and automation for efficiency. •
   Business Analysis Fundamentals -ECBA, CCBA, CBAP Page 212    
Understanding the Business Objective
Understand what the goal of the project is, why is this project here
What is the purpose of the project?1.
What are the goals and objectives of this project?2.
In the eyes of the project, what is success and how will it be measured?3.
Writing and Presenting a Business Case
Business Case
A decision making tool used to determine the effects a particular deciosn will have on profitability 
( a document presented to decision makers giving them options and based on the actions heres 
the cost benefit or ROI by making a decision one way or another•
Driver of projects•
Identify and highlight opportunities a business has and the different options and recommended 
solution•
Used to convince decision makers about the course of action
Selling the business in investing money to solve this problem○•
Not always writtenc•
Created prior to begin of project, roi prior to taking action•
Analysts, managers, executives can crease business cases•
Creating a Business Case
Phase 1 –Initial Analysis
Understand problem or opportunity•
Determine high -level requirements •
Identify data needed to suppor the business to take action (ROI)•
Validate with decision makers the high level return is worth the potential investment•
Analyze the likelihood project will be approved and if you should continue•
Phase 2 –Determine Potential Solutions
Identify all possible solutions to the problem
Benefits ○
Costs○
Timetable of project○
Time before a return on investment is realized○
Risks ○•
*One of the solutions should be to do nothing, no action taking
Phase 3 –Write the Business Case
Executive Summary –high level summary about the document •
Problem statement•
Analysis•
Solution options•
Cost -benefit analysis•
Recommendation•
Phase 4 –Review Business Case
Validate problem statement justifies call to action•
Ensure all valid solutions are given•
Double check cost -benefit analysis calculations •
Objectively dissect your recommendation•
Correct any spelling or grammatical mistakes•
Ask another person to review the document•
Get project buy –in of two key stakeholders •
Phase 5 –Present the Business Case
Remind yourself, they havent seen this before•
Clearly define the problem and business need to act •
Give your recommendation•
Explain ROI•
Touch on each risk, but unless asked, don't dive deep•
Mention stakeholder backers•
Close the presentation summarizing the benefits and ROI•
Project Stake Holders
Anyone that has a stake in the project
Internal or external○•
Identify stake holder
Increase the chances for success○
More ideas○
More perspectives○
Increased credibility○•
Get ideas from them as you identify them•
Assigning Responsibilities to stakeholders using a RACI Matrix
Raci Matrix –identify responsibilities early on in the project 
Alleviates power struggles
Reduces lack of ownership
Sets clear expectations
Responsible –who is/will be doing this task? Who's assigned to the task?
Accountable –who has the authority to sign off the work, who's head will roll?
Consulted –Who can tell me more about this task? Subject matter experts
Informed –Who's work depends on this task? Who has to be kept updated about progress
Section 4: Initiating a Project
Friday, September 13, 2024 9:33 AM
   Business Analysis Fundamentals -ECBA, CCBA, CBAP Page 213    
Requirements 101
Guides the desing of the eventual solution
Without correct requirements, you cannot design or build the correct product
60% of project failures originate with the requirements
Categories of Requirements
Functional Requirements
Things the product must do•
Action the product must take•
Non -Functional Requirements
Properties or qualities the product must have •
How the product will behave•
Constraints
Global Requirements
Purpose of the project○
Users of a product○•
Product Constraints 
Purpose of the product –reason for building the product •
Client, Customer, and Stakeholders –people that interact with the product •
Users of the Product –intended end -users and how they affect product usability •
Requirements Constraints –limitation of the project and restrictions on design •
Naming conventions and definitions –vocabulary of the product •
Relevant facts –outside influences that make a difference to this product •
Assumptions –assumptions developers are making •
Functional Requirements
Scope of the product –defines boundaries and connection to other products •
Functional and data requirements –things the product must do and data manipulated by the 
functions•
Course_
Business ...
SMART Requirements
Specific
Overall
Clear, no ambiguity○
Consistent, same terminology throughout○
Simple○•
Questions to ask
What○
Why○
Who○
Where○•
Guidelines
○•fSection 5: Requirement Basics
Monday, September 16, 2024 7:04 AM
   Business Analysis Fundamentals -ECBA, CCBA, CBAP Page 214    
Avoid "some, several many"○
State pronouns clearly ○
Specify units with all numbers○
Use pictures to clarigy understanding○
Provide explanation for terms like transmitted, sent, downloaded, and processed○
Measurable 
Overall
Measure progress towards goal○
Indicators should be quantifiable○•
Questions to ask
How much?○
How many?○
How will I know when it is accomplished○•
Guidelines
Ensure measurable during requirement elicitation○
Validate unequivocal success can be proven with that requirement○
Determine tests that will need to be used to verify the requirement was met○•
Attainable
Overall
Validate requirement is feasible
Within technical expertise▪
Within scope of project▪
Within budget▪○•
Questions to ask
Is there a theoretical solution to the problem○
Has it been done before○
Are there any known constraints○•
Guidelines
Determine who's responsible for satisfying the requirement and validate they can deliver○
Ensure sufficient time, resources, and budget○
Reuse pieces from previous projects○•
Reasonable
Overall
Validate the effort is worth the requirement○•
Questions to ask
Is this worthwhile?○
Is the timing right?○
Does this match our other efforts/needs○•
Guidelines
Run all requirements through a sanity check○
Ensure requirement makes sense in context○•
Traceable
Overall
Trace requirement through design, implementation, and testing○•
Questions to ask
Can I ensure this requirement has been met in the design solution○
Can I ensure this requirment has been met in the implementation○
Can I ensure this requirement has been met during testing○•
Guidelines
Requirements should include○•
   Business Analysis Fundamentals -ECBA, CCBA, CBAP Page 215    
Requirements should include
Originators▪
Assumptions▪
Business justifications▪
Dependencies on other requirements▪
Importance▪○
Tips for Producing Valid Requirements
Should use the word shall•
Only one shall per requirement•
Written in short, simple sentences•
Consistent terminology•
Stated positively•
Accompanied by notes and comments to support and clarify •
Stated positively•
Accompanied by notes and comments to support and clarify•
Stated imperatively•
Don't use will and should •
Translations for Requirement Verbiage
OR-select one of these options •
Can, should -express desire or suggestion instead of requirements •
Must -100% reliability •
Are, is, will -Descriptive part to lead into the requirement •
Support, and/or -confusing •
But not limited to, etc -incomplete requirement/thought •
Shall -dictates specification and functional capability •
Terms to Avoid
Adequate•
Approximately•
Better than•
Comparison•
Easy•
Maintainable•
Maximize•
Minimize•
Normally•
Optimize •
Quality product•
Quick•
Rapid•
Substantial•
Sufficient•
Timely•
Phases of the Requirements Process
elicitation1.
Analysis2.
Specification3.
Approval4.
Business Rules
Business Rules –A rule that defines or constrains some aspect of business and always resolves to either 
true or false. 
Purpose: Business rules are intended to assert business structure or to control or influence the behavior 
of the business
   Business Analysis Fundamentals -ECBA, CCBA, CBAP Page 216    
of the business
Entered email addresses must appear valid (contain @ and .)•
Each class must have at least one instructor•
Customers must have a valid driver's license to rent a vehicle•
A quote must be completed prior to an invoice being generated•
Business Rules vs Business Requirements
Rule: entered email addresses must appear valid
Possible Requirements
Capability to enter email address
Alert agent when email doesn't appear to be valid
Allow for correction of email if invalid email format is entered
Rule: Each course must have at least one instructor
Possible Requirements:
Rule –each course must have at least one instructor
Capability for dean to assign instructor to course○
Course registration cannot be opened until an instructor is assigned○•
Rule –Customers must have a valid driver's license to rent a vehicle
Employee to inspect driver's license○
Ability for employee to validate driver's license○•
Rule –A quote must be completed prior to an invoice being generated
Capability to enter a quote○
Details from quote must automatically flow to the invoice○
Ability to tie the quote and invoices together for reporting○•
Business Rules Best Practices
When documenting rules, keep it simple•
Business requirements are used to comply with business rules•
Each business rule may need multiple requirements•
Business rules should not be changed
Changes can cause major constraints down the road○•
   Business Analysis Fundamentals -ECBA, CCBA, CBAP Page 217    
Requirement Elicitation Basics
Getting business requirements through various activiteis thorugh users and stake holders and be 
able to understand their system constraints and their expecations
Elicitation Technique: Brainstorming 
Brainstorming –solving problems, generate ideas, create consensus
Brainstorming Types
Individual
Project team member creates list of ideas
Open
Participants call out ideas that are captured by scribe
Structured
Participants write down their ideas
Facilitator goes particpant to participant to have them share on idea each
Coninuing sharing process unil all the idea
Brainstorming Pros and Cons
Advantages Disadvantages
Generates multiple ideas quickly Ideas are not discussed/explored
Involves multiple perspectives True meaning may be ambiguous or misunderstood
Promotes equal participation
Brainstorming: Best Practices
Determine type of brainstorming meeting ahead of time•
Publish an agenda prior to the brainstorming session•
Clearly state the objective of the meeting•
Create environment to encourage participation•
Groundrules
Don't discuss ideas only as questions to clarify○
Don't dismiss or discount an idea or person○
Do not build on others' suggestions and Ideas○•
Do build on other's suggestions and ideas•
Establish Roles
Timekeeper○
Scribe○
Facilitator○•
Create process for combining, categorizing, and summarizing like ideas•
If complex, create multiple meetings to keep meeting fatigue low•
Schedule follow -up meetings •
Prioritize final idea to plan further analysis•
Elicitation Technique: Requirement Workshops
Structured meeting that involves:
End users
Subject matter experts
Project manager
Business
It reps
Generally is used for projects with multiple business units
Works to  define, clarify, and complete requirements
Starts at broad level and dives into function and processes as the workshop moves forward 
Advantages Disadvantages
Effective at getting real requirements instead of 
perceived requirementsDifficult to get appropriate stakeholders 
in one room at same time
Greater chance of obtaining consensus because issues 
and questions are asked in real -timeIncreased number of global projects 
poses logistic difficulties and adds 
complexity
Confirmation of requirement accuracy is immediate Success of the session is highly dependent 
on the expertise of the facilitator
Successfully gather requirements from a large group 
in a short period of timeCan be expensive
Documentation is completed within hours of the 
session and provided quickly back to participants for 
review
Best Practices
Determine type of requirement workshop ahead of time•
Be clear on what sessions will deliver•
Utilize modeling tools to visualize the processes and requirements•
Facilitator should be experienced•
Limit the meeting to the key project participants
Include end -users, subject matter experts, developers, and senior management ○•
Remember that you are an analyst, not just a scribe/facilitator•
Elicitation Technique: Interviewing
Systematic discussion to drive out accurate requirements quickly•
Gain understanding of high -level needs, constraints, and assumptions •
Reduces misunderstanding de to cultural differences, lack of openness, and acronyms/vocabulary•
One on one or with a small group•
Can be formal or informal•
See the process or requirements from interviewee's perspective•
Interviewing: Types
Personal Interviews
Scripted questions –interviewee's answers documented ○
Exploratory questions to clarify and validate requirements, while removing assumptions○•
Job shadowing
Walk through a work day with a user or user group observing them○•Activity: Utilize the elicitation skills you've learned
This activity is all about you working through how you would handle this real -world scenario.  
SCENARIO:   You are working as a Business Analyst for ABC Company.  You have been tasked 
with playing the BA role for an oncoming project.  The Project Manager has fully defined the 
project and created a Project Charter that lays out the specific objective the project is looking 
to achieve. The project is pertaining to the Customer Support team and more specifically how 
they are handling incoming support calls.  The project was funded by the VP of Customer 
Service because the incoming support call volume has continually risen quarter over quarter 
and customer cases are taking a significantly long time to close (average of 4.5 days to close 
now in comparison to 2.1 days a year ago), thus causing a decrease in sales.  It is assumed 
(based on feedback from Customer Service Managers) that the increase in time to close a case 
is directly correlated to the number of cases their teams are handling.  It is also assumed (based 
on feedback from the Customer Retention Managers) that the customer dissatisfaction with the 
case close time is decreasing the sales volume for ABC Company.  
You, as the Business Analyst, are charged with completing an Analysis and understanding what 
the cause of the issues really are and some potential solutions that could be put in place to fix 
the found issues.
For this activity, you are to plan for who you would need to elicit requirements from, what you 
would be addressing with them (or hoping to gain from them), and the elicitation technique or 
techniques you feel would be the best to apply.  Once you are done, share this with a family 
member or a friend, and get their feedback on your plan.  There is no right or wrong answers 
here.  You simply are applying the pros and cons of each elicitation technique to a real -world 
scenario.
Enjoy!!Section 6: Requirement Elicitation
Monday, September 16, 2024 11:20 AM
   Business Analysis Fundamentals -ECBA, CCBA, CBAP Page 218    
Walk through a work day with a user or user group observing them○
Customer site visits
Understand operational environment to discover prerequisites for job success○•
Task analysis
Ask end -users to walk through their current jobs ○
Show as is process in order to identify essential and frequent tasks○
Interviewer asks questions to understand what works well and what doesn’t○•
Advantages Disadvantages
Promote interactive discussions to 
explore detailed informationRequire access and commitment of stakeholders
Identify conflicts or discrepancies about 
stated needs or requirements Creation of scripted interview questions can be time 
consuming
Encourage participation and build 
relationships by establishing rapport with 
stakeholderStakeholders have difficulty describing their future 
needs, so the focus is usually focused on what they 
currently do
Enable observations of nonverbal 
behaviorResulting documentation is subject to interpretation 
of the interviewer
Allow immediate follow -up to ensure 
understandingTranscription and analysis of interview data can be 
complex and expensive
Interviewing: Best Practices
Determine the best interview type to accomplish your goals•
Appropriately prepare for the interview•
Schedule interviews ahead of time•
Respect the person by being on time and display interest in the subject•
Match the pace of the interviewee
If they are cautious, talk slow. If they are in a hurry, talk quickly○•
Check understanding often•
Let interviewee know what will be one with the information•
One person conducts interview while other documents answers, or record interview•
Ask for ezamples of their issues and document screen shot •
Interview two to three users for each user category targeting•
Interview end -users, not just upper management who thinks they know how thehow the 
process/system is used•
Create a thank -you email appreciating their time and how the information will help create quality 
requirements -(sent with interview invite)•
Create and follow -up email telling the person how the information will be used and the next steps 
for the project•
Allow time in schedule to debrief and finish documentation after each interview•
Interviewing: Interview Questions
Make questions open -ended
If they could answer the question with a yes or no, reward it○•
Avoid questions that may present judgement or a conclusion •
Allow the questions to flow naturally so they can be put into conversation rather than a survey•
Interview Document
Name of interviewee •
Role of person and their primary responsibilities•
Open -ended questions•
Space for answers•
Space for interviewers' insights•
Action item box for flagging key pieces of information
Requirement, new requirement risk, assumption, or constraint○•
Sample Interview Questions
What are other ways you accomplish this goal?•
Tell me about your frustrations with this process•
What would the process look like if it was perfect•
What standards or regulations should we be aware of?•
What purpose is accomplished by using the product or process•
What equipment do people need to use•
How long should tasks take•
What people do you share information with•
What failures cause the orgainzation the most pain•
What didn't I ask that I should have?•
If we could only change one aspect of the process what would it be•
Elicitation Technique: Surveys
Open -ended Questions
Gives respondents an opportunity to answer in their own words○
Useful, time consuming to interpret and catalogue ○•
Closed -ended questions
Finite set of answers for each question○
Lends itself to statistical analysis○
Tough to create questions that are not leading or need an "other" answer○
Questions can vary
Not important to extremently important▪
Disagree to agree▪
Rank order a list of items▪
Multiple choice▪○•
Advantages Disadvantages
Require limited stakeholder's time Low response rate
Effective at reaching dispersed stakeholders Poorly worded questions may provide inaccurate 
information
Scalable for larger audiences Use of open -ended questions requirements more 
analysis by the business analyst
Relatively fast and inexpensive to administer Require both instrument training and problem or 
business domain experience
Supplement more subjective info, such as 
opinions gained through interviewIncentives for responding might be expensive
   Business Analysis Fundamentals -ECBA, CCBA, CBAP Page 219    
opinions gained through interview
Surveys: Best Practices
Focus on high -priority identified risks •
Set a baseline by identifying user satisfaction with existing systems•
Direct and unambiguous •
Complex questions later in survey•
Demographic info last•
Create rewards for participating•
Create survey with inexpensive online tools•
Notify the participants when the survey is available and continue to remind them to participate•
Elicitation Technique: Documentation Review
Review existing documentation
User guides○
Prior system implementation documentation, including lessons learned○
Technical documentation○
Lessons learned after completion of latest project○•
Formulates context for understanding the scope of the project •
Advantages Disadvantages
Current process documentation provides a 
starting pointExisting documentation may be old and out -of-date
The reviewer needs domain and technical expertise to 
determine if existing
Can be time consuming, and may not provide the desired 
payback
Documentation Review: Best Practices
Know the purpose for reviewing•
Set self -imposed time limits •
Create a flossary of terms from former project documentation•
Elicitation Technique: Analyzing Interfaces
Revie system, people, and process linkages•
Determine needs for input, output, and the medium•
Describe manual and automated processes•
Advantages Disadvantages
Discovers missed interfaces and their purposes Not useful as standalone elicitation activity
Determines regulations or interface standards Can begin to focus on many technical details
Provides missed requirements Can be redundant with modeling activities
Uncovers areas of project risk
   Business Analysis Fundamentals -ECBA, CCBA, CBAP Page 220    
Introduction to Requirement Analysis
1. all stakeholders to understand requirement1.
2. business customer must understand the need and what it will do so they can prioritize it2.
3. design and implement a solution to meet requirements3.
Visual Modeling Concepts
Graphical representation using a modeling language that takes something complex and makes it 
easier to understand
Benefits of Visual Modeling
Easily understand complex information•
Gets all stakeholders involved•
Receive requirements efficiently•
Identify the underlying problem•
Analyze 'what if' scenarios•
Allows removal of irrelevant information•
What Gets Modeled?
Current state "as -is" •
Future state, "to -be" •
Requirements fill the gap•
Business Models
Organizational Chart
Breaks down the hierarchy of the org making it easier to identify stakeholders○•
Stakeholder Map
Visual model of the system and all stakeholders by department○•
Use Case Diagram•
Process Flow Diagram•
User interface wireframe
Design of a system○•
Technical Models
System context diagram –the system and what people/systems are interacting with the main 
system and how•
Data Flow Diagram –helps to show where the data is flowing or how it's working •
CRUD Matrix
Roles are across the top and specific info on left hand column○
Create○
Read○
Update○
Delete Information○•
State Diagram•
Entity Relationship Diagram (ERD)•
BPMN vs UML
Business Process Modeling Notation vs Unified Modeling Language 
modeling languages for creating visual models•
Activity -activity within a process, triggered by an event •
Event -manual or automated action, or delay in time that triggers an action •
Gateway -Split of pathways, where multiple paths can be taken or decision on a path must be 
made per a condition•
Flow -Direction of the sequence or order of events and actions •
Swimlanes -visual distinction of who is doing what within a process •
Engaging Your Technical Team
Section 7: Requirement Analysis
Monday, September 16, 2024 12:42 PM
   Business Analysis Fundamentals -ECBA, CCBA, CBAP Page 221    
Intro to Requirement Specification
requirement elicitation1.
Requirement Analysis2.
Requirement Specification3.
Requirements Approval4.
Categorizing Requirements
Breaking requirements down into functional, non -functional, supplemental, and constraint
Aids in documentation •
Helps to prioritize •
Assists in estimating the system cost•
Identifies areas that requqire further investigation•
Functional Requirements
Things the product must do•
Action the product must take•
Nonfunctional requirements 
Properties or qualities the product must have•
How the product will behave•
Product Restraints
Global Requirements
Purpose of the project○
Users of a product○•
Deriving Requirements
Parsing Requirements
Breaking down requirements that are too broada.
Original Requirement
User Completed fields on tax forms shall be converted to electronic text documentsi.b.
Parsed Requirements
System shall be able to convert handwriting to texti.
System shall be able to convert machine print to textii.
System shall be able to electronically correct user -completed fields iii.c.
Remove "And" From Requirements
Risk is high that only one of the conditions will be testedi.
Hard to trace the requirement bug/failureii.d.1.
Interpreting Requirements
Reduce generalness and ambiguity of state requirementsa.
Original Requirement
"Each PC shall have state -of-the-art software installed" i.b.
Interpreted Requirement
Each pc shall mace microsoft office 2013 and windows 10 installedi.c.
Parsed Requirements:
Each pc shall have microsoft office 2013 installedi.
Each PC shall have windows 10 installedii.d.2.
Focusing Requirements
Combine overlapping requirements into one focused requirementa.
Original Requirement
Each pc must have a standard spreadsheet tool installed that runs in windowsi.b.
Focused requirement:
Each PC on the LAN shall have Microsoft Office Excel 2013i.c.3.
Qualifying Requirements
Add a requirement to provide a method of verification or compliance to make it testablea.
Original Requirement
The XXX command must preform the following actions i.b.
Qualified Requirement
Each command shall be executed during system testing to demonstrate its 
functionalityi.c.4.
Assigning Requirement Attributes
Clarification •
Filtering •
Validation•
Typical Attributes
Unique Identifier –req001, identifier unique to specific requirement •
Acceptance criteria –what is the criteria used to validate that the requirement has been met •
Author •
Complexity•
Ownership•
Performance•
Urgency•
Business value•
Status •
Priority•
Source•
Prioritizing Requirements
Generally there are too many functions and feature to implement within the project schedule and 
budget
Prioritization Factors
Value to business•
Value to customer•
Minimize cost to develop•
Time to implement•
Ease of technical implementation•
Ease of business implementation•
Obligation to some external authority•
3 Step Prioritization Process
Step 1 –define usefulness to business (critical, important, nice to have) •
Step 2 –Estimate cost (1 -5 scale) •
Step 3 –Determine Timeframe (1 -5 Scale) •
Best Practices
Keep it simple•
Business Value reigns supreme•
Remove prioritization away from politics•
Prioritize (and re -prioritize) after each project iteration •
Validating Requirements
Going through and making requirements are valid
Specific, measurable, attainable, reasonable, traceable○•Prioritizing Requirements Example
You are hired by a brick -and-mortar business to help them create and implement an e -
commerce store. Below are two requirements and you are asked which one should be 
completed first.
What do you think?
(1) A website visitor can save products to their wishlist.
Usefulness: Nice to have --They can easily find and purchase those products later. Not 
necessary for the e -commerce store to function•
Estimate: 4 --lots of hidden requirements as they will also need the ability to review the list, 
remove from the list, add to cart from list, etc.•
Timeframe: 4 --will take additional requirement discussions, designing, etc. •
(2) A website visitor can change the number (quantity) of products in their cart
Usefulness: Important --being able to change the number of items from the cart is important 
to a good user experience•
Estimate: 2 --small scope, only affects the cart and (maybe) the checkout process •
Timeframe: 2 --implementing should be fairly straightforward after requirements are fully 
identified.•
======================================
SCROLL DOWN FOR ANSWER
======================================
As you look at these two requirements, you can see that the ability to change the quantity (2) 
should be prioritized above the wishlist item; it is more useful and it will take less time to 
develop and implement
(1) A website visitor can save products to their wishlist.
Usefulness: Nice to have --They can easily find and purchase those products later. Not 
necessary for the e -commerce store to function•
Estimate: 4 --lots of hidden requirements as they will also need the ability to review the list, 
remove from the list, add to cart from list, etc.•
Timeframe: 4 --will take additional requirement discussions, designing, etc. •
(2) A website visitor can change the number (quantity) of products in their cart
Usefulness: Important --being able to change the number of items from the cart is important 
to a good user experience•
Estimate: 2 --small scope, only affects the cart and (maybe) the checkout process •
Timeframe: 2 --implementing should be fairly straightforward after requirements are fully 
identified.•Section  8: Requirement Specification
Monday, September 16, 2024 12:59 PM
   Business Analysis Fundamentals -ECBA, CCBA, CBAP Page 222    
Specific, measurable, attainable, reasonable, traceable○
Clear and concise –no ambiguity ○
Business Requirement Document (BRD)
Houses all requirements, use cases, stake holders, everything illiciting are documented here•
Business analyst is responsible for completeness and acuract•
Houses all requirements for this specific project•
Lists and houses stake holders in project•
Stakeholders sign off on BRD •
Help design solution, capturing what business needs, design shows, solution implemented•
Standard•
Business+
Requirem...•
   Business Analysis Fundamentals -ECBA, CCBA, CBAP Page 223    
Overview
Business Team Approval•
Technical Team Approval•
Project Sponsor / Committee Approval•
Gaining Business Approval
Schedule
Multiple Review Sessions•
Separate Business Units•
Never exceed four hours per session•
Involve subject matter experts (SME)•
Keep it relevant to the audience•
Create meeting agenda•
Conduct
Explain the purpose of the meeting and the agenda•
Review project and objective•
Go over each requirement•
Address questions and concerns immediately•
Change and update requirements•
Table all new requirements unless deemed critical•
*if critical requirements are determined, reschedule the approval meeting
Gaining Technical Approval
Session 1 –schedule initial high level review •
Session 2 –schedule in -depth follow up review •
Include technical subject matter experts (SMEs)•
Include technical lead / architect•
Create agendas for both meetings•
Session 1: Conduct
Explain purpose of meeting and agenda1.
Review project and objective2.
Touch on each section of requirements3.
Identify any major technical concerns4.
Answer questions5.
Session 2: Conduct
Explain the purpose of the meeting and agenda1.
Review project objective2.
Go through each requirement to validate technical feasibility3.
Identify any troublesome requirements4.
Verify enough detail for design phase5.
Make or buy decision
Make –create high level design architecture a.
Buy –determine options (competitive comparison matrix b.6.
Update project estimated cost7.
Gaining Sponsor or Committee Approval
Schedule:
Create presentation to talk high level about project
○•Section 9: Requirements Approval
Monday, September 16, 2024 1:41 PM
   Business Analysis Fundamentals -ECBA, CCBA, CBAP Page 224    
Update project schedule, cost, and risks○
Summarize business requirements○
Define recommended solution○
Anticipate transition to the solution (training, policies, job aids)○
Majority of presentation should be visuals and charts○
Schedule approval meeting with sponsor/ committee•
Invite business and technical project leads•
Create meeting agenda•
Conduct:
Explain purpose of meeting and agenda1.
Review project and objective (sell it)2.
Give high level presentation3.
Address questions and concerns immediately4.
Gain official sign -off on the project 5.
6.
   Business Analysis Fundamentals -ECBA, CCBA, CBAP Page 225    
Conducting a Project Review
Project Review
Brings project team and other stakeholders together to discuss what went well and what didn't•
Can be multiple meeting depending on size of project•
Send a survey ahead of time to collect feedback•
Prepare and send an agenda prior to the meeting•
Feedback Survey
Sent at least one week before the meeting asking about thoughts on project
Overall, how successful do you think this project was? What went right (3 things)a.
What obstacles where faced (3 things)b.
What needs improvement/should have been done differently (3 things)c.
Do you have any other comments?d.•
Review Meeting
Tend to focus on negative so keep it non -confrontational and be sure to ask about what went right •
Work through each section of the feedback survey and facilitate positive and meaningful 
discussion•
Take notes both on positive and constructive feedback•
Post Review Meeting
Analyze the results from review meeting and recommend process or procedural changes that 
should be made for future projects•
Verifying Project Completion
Validate project objectives have been met and analyzes if the project adhered to budget, 
schedule, and quality requirements.
Completed by project manager○
Format and level of detail varies per project○
States any open issues or risks○
Outlines high level customer satisfaction on project○•Section 10: After the Project
Monday, September 16, 2024 2:18 PM
   Business Analysis Fundamentals -ECBA, CCBA, CBAP Page 226    
Application Environments
Dev -> QA -> Preprod -> ProdSection 11: Miscellaneous Other Topics
Monday, September 16, 2024 2:25 PM
   Business Analysis Fundamentals -ECBA, CCBA, CBAP Page 227    
Episode 1: Computer Operating Systems
Filename : comptia -itfunfc0u61 -1-1-1-computer_operating_systems •
Description : Ronnie and Don define what a computer operating system is, how it functions, and 
the features commonly found in various OSes.•
Content :
What is it? : Provides a common environment for software execution, linking users with 
hardware.•
Types of Operating Systems :
Workstation•
Server•
Mobile•
Embedded (Firmware)•
Hypervisor••
How does it work? :
HAL (Hardware Abstraction Layer)•
Drivers•
Additional Functionality:
Logging/Auditing•
Permissions/Access Control•
Multitasking•
Background Services•
Crash Recovery•
Application Management•
Software Updates•
Network Services••••
Episode 2: Microsoft Windows
Filename : comptia -itfunfc0u61 -1-2-1-microsoft_windows •
Description : Ronnie and Don explore the Microsoft Windows OS, focusing on its core functionality 
and unique features.•
Content :
History of Microsoft Windows •
User Interface : Explorer •
Disk/File Management :
Drive Letters•
NTFS••
Application Management :
Installing/Uninstalling Software•
Launching/Switching Applications••
Task Management :
Task Manager•
Scheduled Tasks•
Services••
User Management :
User Accounts•
Login/Logout/Lock•••
Episode 3: Apple macOS
Filename : comptia -itfunfc0u61 -1-3-1-apple_macos •
Description : Ronnie and Don explore Apple macOS, showcasing its core functionality and unique •1. Operating Systems
Thursday, October 10, 2024 8:21 AM
   Comptia ITF+ Page 228    
Description : Ronnie and Don explore Apple macOS, showcasing its core functionality and unique 
features.•
Content :
History of Apple macOS •
User Interface : Aqua/Finder •
Disk/File Management :
Drive Mounts•
HFS+/APFS••
Application Management :
Installing/Uninstalling Software•
Launching/Switching Applications••
Task Management : Activity Monitor •
User Management :
User Accounts•
Login/Logout/Lock•••
Episode 4: GNU Linux
Filename : comptia -itfunfc0u61 -1-4-1-gnu_linux •
Description : Ronnie and Don explore the GNU Linux operating system, covering its core 
functionality and unique features.•
Content :
History of GNU Linux •
User Interface : GNOME •
Disk/File Management :
Drive Mounts•
EXT/XFS••
Application Management :
Installing/Uninstalling Software•
Launching/Switching Applications••
Task Management : System Monitor •
User Management :
User Accounts•
Login/Logout/Lock•••
   Comptia ITF+ Page 229    
Episode 1: Software Usage Requirements
Filename : comptia -itfunfc0u61 -2-1-1-software -usage -requirements •
Description : Don and Ronnie discuss the various requirements for using software, including costs, 
licensing agreements, and platform compatibility.•
Keywords : Single -platform software, Cross -platform software, Licensing, Installation •
Content :
General Application Concepts :
Single -Platform Software : Runs on a single OS or CPU type (e.g., Windows -only 
applications, x86/ARM -specific software).•
Cross -Platform Software : Runs on multiple platforms (e.g., Linux and macOS). •
Compatibility Concerns : Software may be "ported" to other OSes, but performance 
may vary.••
Licensing Types :
Single -use, group/site licenses, volume licensing, concurrent licensing. •
Open Source vs. Proprietary :
Open Source: MIT License, Apache 2.0, GNU GPLv3.•
Proprietary: Closed -source with specific user conditions. •••
Costs :
Subscription vs. One -time Purchase : E.g., Office 365 (subscription) vs. Office 2016 
(one -time purchase).•
Product Keys/Serial Numbers : Acquired through various methods (OEM, email). ••
Software Installation Best Practices :
Reading instructions and agreements (EULA).•
Understanding installation processes for different OSes (e.g., Linux, Windows).•••
Episode 2: Business and Productivity Software
Filename : comptia -itfunfc0u61 -2-2-1-business -and-productivity -software •
Description : Don and Ronnie explain the use of business and productivity software and 
demonstrate their application in a workplace setting.•
Keywords : Productivity, Business, Application Delivery, Application Architecture •
Content :
Productivity Software :
Word processing (e.g., Microsoft Word).•
Spreadsheet software (e.g., Excel).•
Presentation software (e.g., PowerPoint).•
Visual diagramming (e.g., SimpleDiagrams).••
Business Software :
Project management (e.g., SmartSheet).•
Industry -specific applications. •
Accounting software (e.g., QuickBooks).••
Application Delivery Models :
Locally Installed : No network required, files stored locally. •
Local Network Hosted : Network required, but internet access is not needed. •••
Episode 3: Collaboration Software
Filename : comptia -itfunfc0u61 -2-3-1-Collaboration -Software •
Description : Don and Ronnie explore collaboration software, its role in business, and methods of 
software delivery.•
Keywords : Collaboration, Application Delivery •
Content : •2. Software & Application
Thursday, October 10, 2024 8:23 AM
   Comptia ITF+ Page 230    
Content :
Collaboration Tools :
Email clients (e.g., Outlook with calendar/scheduling).•
Conferencing and instant messaging (e.g., Slack).•
Online workspaces and document sharing.••
Application Delivery Models :
Cloud Hosted : Requires internet access, data is stored in the cloud. •••
Episode 4: Web Browser Settings
Filename : comptia -itfunfc0u61 -2-3-1-web -browser -settings •
Description : Don and Ronnie demonstrate how to configure web browsers for better 
functionality, including security and performance.•
Keywords : Caching, Private Browsing, Proxy Settings, Certificates, Popup Blockers, Script Blockers. •
Content :
Web Browser Configuration :
Caching/Clearing Cache : Managing cached credentials. •
Deactivating Client -Side Scripting : For security against scripting attacks. •
Browser Add -Ons/Extensions : Installing, enabling, or disabling features. •
Private Browsing : Prevents storage of cookies, history, and temp files. •
Proxy Settings : Improves connection speed through server intermediaries. •
Certificates : Validating website security. •
Popup and Script Blockers : Blocking ads and scripts (e.g., Flash, Java). •••
   Comptia ITF+ Page 231    
Episode 1: Programming Concepts
Filename : comptia -itfunfc0u61 -3-1-1-programming_concepts •
Description : Don and Ronnie introduce application development, covering fundamental 
programming concepts and demonstrating basic application design.•
Content :
What is "Code"?
Code is written as source code , which consists of collections of instructions. •
Source code follows specific styles/formats based on a programming language . ••
Types of Programming Languages :
Interpreted Languages : Examples include JavaScript, Perl, Python, and PHP. •
Compiled Languages : Examples include C, C++, and Rust. •
Query Languages : SQL, Transact -SQL, XQuery. •
Assembly Language : Directly corresponds to hardware. •
Machine Code : Lowest -level code understood by hardware. ••
Choosing a Language :
The decision is subjective , depending on needs and goals. ••
How Languages Work :
Programming is like a flow -chart , where actions follow a series of decisions. •
Example: MIT Scratch for beginners. ••
Key Concepts :
Variables : Data containers. •
Arrays : Collections of variables. •
Functions : Blocks of code performing specific tasks. •
Objects : Contain properties (attributes). •
Loops : Execute code repeatedly until a condition is met.•••
Episode 2: Developing with Python
Filename : comptia -itfunfc0u61 -3-2-1-developing_with_python •
Description : Don and Ronnie demonstrate writing a basic application in Python, gradually 
introducing elements like variables, functions, and loops to create a more complex example.•
Content :
Simple Python Application :
"Hello World" Example:•
python
Copy code
print("Hello World!")•
Using Variables :
Single Variable:•
python
Copy code
name = "Ronnie"
print("Hello " + name + "!")
Multiple Variables:•
python
Copy code
name1 = "Ronnie"
name2 = "Don"
print("Hello " + name1 + " and " + name2 + "!")••3. Software Development
Thursday, October 10, 2024 8:27 AM
   Comptia ITF+ Page 232    
print("Hello " + name1 + " and " + name2 + "!")
Calling Functions :
Example of a function:•
python
Copy code
def hello(name):
    print("Hello " + name + "!")
hello("Ronnie")
hello("Don")•
Using If Statements :
Example of conditional logic:•
python
Copy code
def hello(name):
    if(name == "Ronnie"):
        print(name + " is my favorite!")
    else:
        print(name + " is super boring.")
hello("Ronnie")
hello("Don")•
Looping a Function :
Example of a while loop: •
python
Copy code
def hello(name):
    if(name == "Ronnie"):
        print(name + " is my favorite!")
    else:
        print(name + " is super boring.")
loop = 0
while(loop < 6):
    hello("Ronnie")
    hello("Don")
    loop = loop + 1•
   Comptia ITF+ Page 233    
Episode 1: Central Processing Unit (CPU)
Filename : comptia -itfunfc0u61 -4-1-0-central -processing -unit-cpu •
Description : Don and Ronnie introduce the CPU and discuss its role in different types of 
computing devices, from general -purpose PCs to IoT devices.•
Keywords : Workstations, Laptops, Servers, Mobile, Tablets, IoT, CPU, Processing Speed. •
Content :
CPU Overview : Central Processing Unit as the brain of a computer. •
Device Types :
General -purpose: PCs, workstations, laptops, servers. •
Specialized: Mobile phones, tablets, gaming consoles, IoT devices.••
CPU Architectures :
ARM : Energy -efficient, used in mobile devices. •
32-bit vs. 64 -bit:
32-bit: Limited to 4GB RAM, handles smaller data chunks.•
64-bit: Accesses more than 4GB RAM (up to 18 billion GB), handles larger data 
sets.•••
Processing Speeds :
Measured in MHz (1 million Hertz) or GHz (1 billion Hertz). •••
Episode 2: Common Hardware
Filename : comptia -itfunfc0u61 -4-2-1-common -hardware •
Description : Don and Ronnie explain the basic components found in most computers and their 
functions, including the BIOS and boot process.•
Keywords : Workstations, Laptops, Servers, Mobile, Tablets, IoT, CPU, Processing Speed. •
Content :
Motherboard/System Board : The "spine" that connects all components. •
RAM (Random Access Memory) : Fast, short -term memory; data is lost without power. •
Firmware/BIOS :
BIOS : Basic Input/Output System; provides initial instructions to start a computer.•
Boot Process : Steps to load the operating system. ••
Basic CPU Processing : Input, Processing, Storage, and Output. ••
Episode 3: Peripheral Devices
Filename : comptia -itfunfc0u61 -4-3-1-peripheral -devices •
Description : Don and Ronnie showcase various external devices that can be connected to 
computers, detailing connection types and installation methods.•
Keywords : Connectors, USB, FireWire, Thunderbolt, Printers, Keyboard, Mouse, External HDD, 
Speakers.•
Content :
Connectors : USB, FireWire, Thunderbolt, Bluetooth, RF. •
Peripheral Devices : Scanner, keyboard, mouse. •
Installation Types : Plug -and-play, driver installation. ••
Episode 4: Peripheral Devices Pt2
Filename : comptia -itfunfc0u61 -4-3-2-peripheral -devices -pt2 •
Description : Continuation of the discussion on peripheral devices, focusing on IP -based 
peripherals and the importance of drivers.•
Keywords : Connectors, USB, FireWire, Thunderbolt, Printers, Keyboard, Mouse, External HDD, 
Speakers.•
Content :
IP-Based Peripherals : E.g., IP -based printers and their web -based configuration. ••4. Computer Hardware
Thursday, October 10, 2024 8:28 AM
   Comptia ITF+ Page 234    
IP-Based Peripherals : E.g., IP -based printers and their web -based configuration. •
Driver Management : How to install and manage drivers for optimal performance. •
Webcam and Device Compatibility : Some devices work without additional drivers. •
Episode 5: Display Hardware
Filename : comptia -itfunfc0u61 -4-4-1-display -hardware •
Description : Don and Ronnie discuss the different types of display hardware IT techs commonly 
support, including connection types.•
Keywords : Display, Monitor, GPU, VGA, HDMI, DVI, DisplayPort. •
Content :
Types of Displays : CRT, flat -panel monitors. •
Graphics Processing Unit (GPU) : Powers display rendering. •
Connection Types : VGA, HDMI, DVI, DisplayPort, Mini DisplayPort. ••
Episode 6: Storage Hardware
Filename : comptia -itfunfc0u61 -4-5-1-storage -hardware •
Description : Don and Ronnie explore various computer storage devices, their functions, and the 
differences between volatile and non -volatile storage.•
Keywords : SSD, HDD, Volatile, Non -volatile, RAM, Flash Drive, Optical. •
Content :
Storage Devices :
Hard Drives (HDD) vs. Solid -State Drives (SSD) . •
Optical Drives : CDs, DVDs. •
Flash Drives . ••
Volatile vs. Non -Volatile Memory :
Volatile : Requires power (e.g., RAM). •
Non -Volatile : Retains data without power (e.g., SSD, HDD). ••
Storage Capacities : Bit, Byte, KB, MB, GB, TB, PB. •
Network Storage :
Local Network Storage : NAS, file servers. •
Cloud Storage : Services like Dropbox, OneDrive, Google Drive. •••
   Comptia ITF+ Page 235    
Episode 1: Basic Networking Concepts
Filename : comptia -itfunfc0u61 -5-1-1-basic -networking -concepts •
Description : Don and Ronnie introduce fundamental networking concepts, covering packet 
transmission, networking with names and addresses, and basic protocols. They also describe 
devices used in networking.•
Keywords : DNS, LAN vs. WAN, IP address, MAC address, POP3, IMAP, SMTP, HTTPS, Modem, 
Router, Switch, Access Point, Firewall.•
Content :
Introduction to the OSI Model :
Layers 1 to 7: Physical, Data -Link, Network, Transport, Session, Presentation, 
Application.••
Local Communications :
Layer 2 Devices : Switches, hubs, access points. •
MAC Addresses and Broadcasts . ••
Remote Communications :
Layer 3 Devices : Routers, firewalls, modems. •
Technologies : Subnets, DNS, unicast sessions. ••
Layer 4 :
Transmission Protocols : TCP (Transmission Control Protocol) and UDP (User Datagram 
Protocol).•
Common Protocols : SMTP, HTTP/HTTPS, POP3, IMAP. •••
Episode 2: Network Connection Types
Filename : comptia -itfunfc0u61 -5-2-1-configuring -a-wireless •
Description : Don and Ronnie demonstrate how to install, configure, and secure a basic wireless 
network, including Wi -Fi standards and best practices.•
Keywords : Wireless router, configuration, security. •
Content :
Wi-Fi Standards :
802.11a/b/g : Older standards, single stream, single frequency. •
802.11n/ac : Newer standards, multiple streams, multiple frequencies. •
Speed and Distance Factors : Impact of solid objects and other access points. ••
Wireless Network Security :
Best practices: Change SSID, change default password.•
Encryption Types :
Open : No encryption.•
WEP, WPA, WPA2 : Different levels of security. •
Captive Portal : Requires user login. ••••
Episode 3: Connections and Service Types
Filename : comptia -itfunfc0u61 -5-2-1-connection -and-service -types •
Description : Don and Ronnie cover different network connection types, including wired and 
wireless interfaces, and how to measure throughput.•
Keywords : Wired, Wireless, Bluetooth, NFC, Speed Test. •
Content :
Wired Connections :
Telephone Connector (RJ -11). •
Ethernet Connector (RJ -45). ••
Wireless Connections :
Bluetooth : Short -range wireless communication. •••5. Networking
Thursday, October 10, 2024 8:29 AM
   Comptia ITF+ Page 236    
Bluetooth : Short -range wireless communication. •
NFC: Near -Field Communication, limited to 4 cm range. •
Throughput Measurement :
Units: bps (bits per second), Kbps, Mbps, Gbps, Tbps.••
Episode 4: Connections and Service Types Pt2
Filename : comptia -itfunfc0u61 -5-3-2-connection -and-service -types •
Description : Don and Ronnie explain different types of internet connections, comparing their 
advantages and limitations.•
Keywords : Fiber Optic, Cable, DSL, Wireless, Satellite, Cellular LTE. •
Content :
Internet Service Types :
Fiber Optic : Fastest, but limited availability. •
Cable : Uses TV cables, good bandwidth, shared connection.•
DSL: Faster than dial -up, speed depends on proximity to provider. •
Wireless : Relies on towers, requires external antenna. •
Satellite : Large coverage area, slower due to signal travel distance, limited data. •
Cellular LTE (4G) : Mobile or fixed connectivity, dependent on tower proximity, subject 
to data limits.•••
   Comptia ITF+ Page 237    
Episode 1: Database Concepts
Filename : comptia -itfunfc0u61 -6-1-1-database_concepts •
Description : Ronnie and Don introduce the fundamentals of modern databases, explaining their 
structure, advantages, and alternatives to databases.•
Content :
What is a Database?
A repository of information structured for quick access . •
Supports data -driven decisions , capturing, collecting, and correlating data for 
meaningful reporting .•
Records and storage enable data organization and access. ••
Database Capabilities :
Input Data : Data entry. •
Output Data : Querying and reporting. •
Data Persistence : Archiving data for long -term access. ••
Why Use a Database Over Flat Files (e.g., Excel)?
Multiple Concurrent Users . •
Scalability and speed . •
Handles a variety of data types . ••
Types of Databases :
Structured , semi -structured , and non-structured data models. •
Relational Databases vs. Non -relational Databases . •
Examples include key/value databases and document databases . ••
Example SQL Queries :
Generating a list of employees with their hire dates.•
Ranking employees by bonus amount.•••
Episode 2: Querying a Database
Filename : comptia -itfunfc0u61 -6-2-1-querying_a_database •
Description : Don and Ronnie explain SQL queries, demonstrating how to add, retrieve, and modify 
data in a SQL database.•
Content :
Ways to Access a Database :
Direct/Manual Access : Risky due to potential data corruption. •
Programmatic Access : Common, often done via an API. •
User Interface/Utility Access : Useful for research and development. •
Query/Report Builders : Efficient for repetitive queries. ••
SQL Command Types :
Data Manipulation Language (DML) : Used for querying and modifying data. •
Data Definition Language (DDL) : Used for defining and structuring databases. ••
SQL Query Examples :
Create a Table : •
sql
Copy code
CREATE TABLE USStates(
    state_name nvarchar(50),
    state_abr nchar(2)
)
Insert Data : •
sql••6. Databases
Thursday, October 10, 2024 8:31 AM
   Comptia ITF+ Page 238    
sql
Copy code
INSERT INTO USStates (state_name, state_abr)
VALUES ('Florida', 'FL'), ('Georgia', 'GA'), ('Alabama', 'AL');
View Data : •
sql
Copy code
SELECT * FROM USStates ORDER BY state_name;
SELECT state_name FROM USStates WHERE state_abr = 'FL';
Update Data : •
sql
Copy code
UPDATE USStates SET state_name = 'New York' WHERE state_abr = 
'NY';
Delete Data : •
sql
Copy code
DELETE FROM USStates WHERE state_abr = 'NY';
DROP TABLE USStates;
Episode 3: Table Design
Filename : comptia -itfunfc0u61 -6-3-1-table_design •
Description : Ronnie and Don explain how data is structured and stored in a database, focusing on 
relational design and data types.•
Content :
Elements of a Table :
Schema : Blueprint of database structure. •
Tables : Organize data. •
Rows/Records : Individual entries in a table. •
Fields/Columns : Define data attributes. •
Constraints : Rules for data integrity. ••
Relational Database Design :
Primary Key : Unique identifier for records. •
Foreign Key : Links records across tables. •
Indexes : Speed up data retrieval. ••
Example Table Design Tool :
DB Designer : Useful for visualizing database design. ••
Data Types :
Char/Strings : Text data. •
Numbers : Integers, floats. •
Boolean : True/False values. •••
   Comptia ITF+ Page 239    
Episode 1: Basic Security Principles
Filename : comptia -itfunfc0u61 -7-1-1-basic_security_principles •
Description : This episode covers the fundamental principles of data security, emphasizing the 
value of information and key security concerns.•
Content :
Value of Data and Information :
Data as an asset for businesses. •
Importance of investing in security for data protection. •
Relationship between data and creating meaningful information. •
Intellectual Property : Trademarks, copyrights, patents, and digital products. ••
Confidentiality, Integrity, and Availability (CIA) Concerns :
Confidentiality : Risks like snooping, eavesdropping, wiretapping, social engineering, 
and dumpster diving.•
Integrity : Threats such as man -in-the-middle attacks, replay attacks, impersonation, 
and unauthorized data alteration.•
Availability : Issues like denial of service, power outages, hardware failures, and 
service outages.•••
Episode 2: Basic Security Principles Pt. 2
Filename : comptia -itfunfc0u61 -7-1-2-basic_security_principles •
Description : Continuation of the security basics, focusing on the CIA triad and methods for 
protecting each component.•
Content :
Security Triad (CIA) :
Confidentiality :
Risks: Snooping, eavesdropping, wiretapping, social engineering.•
Data Handling : Passwords, encryption, and secure destruction of data. •
Expectation of Privacy : Social media, email, instant messaging, and corporate 
software.••
Integrity :
Concerns: Man -in-the-middle, replay attacks, impersonation. •
Techniques : Authentication, credentials, SSL, digital signatures, authorization, 
and role -based access control (RBAC).••
Availability :
Risks: Denial of service, power outages, hardware failures.•
Techniques : Business continuity planning, redundant hardware, off -site 
backups.••••
Episode 3: Security Best Practices
Filename : comptia -itfunfc0u61 -7-2-1-security_best_practices •
Description : Don and Ronnie discuss practical steps to enhance security, focusing on antivirus 
software, firewalls, and encryption.•
Content :
Antivirus/Anti -malware Solutions :
Examples: Sophos , Trend Micro , and Virus Total . ••
Host Firewalls :
Configuration examples: Windows Firewall , iptables (Linux), MacOS Firewall . ••
Changing Default Passwords : Essential for routers and printers. •
Data Encryption :
Data in Motion : Encryption during transmission. •
Data at Rest : Encrypting stored data. •••7. Security
Thursday, October 10, 2024 8:33 AM
   Comptia ITF+ Page 240    
Data at Rest : Encrypting stored data. •
Safe Browsing Practices :
Use of tools like BadSSL.com for testing. •
Adobe Flash testing and FileZilla downloads.••
File Checksums :
Verifying integrity using sha256sum . ••
Patching/Updates :
Importance of regular updates through platforms like Windows Update and the 
Apple App Store .••
Episode 4: Security Best Practices Pt. 2
Filename : comptia -itfunfc0u61 -7-2-2-security_best_practices •
Description : Focuses on secure password practices, user account management, and the 
continued use of host firewalls.•
Content :
Host Firewalls : Revisiting configuration of Windows Firewall , iptables , and MacOS 
Firewall .•
Changing Default Passwords :
Critical for securing routers and printers.••
User Account Management :
Enforcing strong passwords and using screen savers for security. ••
Data Encryption :
Ensuring data is protected both during transmission and storage . •••
Episode 5: Security Best Practices Pt. 3
Filename : comptia -itfunfc0u61 -7-2-1-security_best_practices •
Description : Emphasizes secure browsing practices, verifying file integrity, and the importance of 
software updates.•
Content :
Safe Browsing :
Utilizing BadSSL.com for secure browsing tests. •
Checking Adobe Flash and downloading applications like FileZilla safely. ••
File Integrity Checks :
Using sha256sum to verify downloaded files. ••
Patching/Updates :
Keeping systems secure with updates through Windows Update and the Apple App 
Store .•••
   Comptia ITF+ Page 241    
Episode 1: Troubleshooting Methodology
Filename : comptia -itfunfc0u61 -8-1-1-troubleshooting -methodology •
Description : Don and Ronnie introduce the first half of the CompTIA 8 -step troubleshooting 
model, using a practical example to illustrate each step.•
Content :
Explain the Troubleshooting Methodology :
Step 1: Identify the Problem :
Gather Information : Collect data from the user and system logs. •
Duplicate the Problem : Reproduce the issue if possible. •
Question Users : Ask about recent changes or symptoms. •
Identify Symptoms : Determine specific signs of the issue. •
Determine Changes : Identify any recent changes in the environment. •
Approach Multiple Problems Individually . ••
Step 2: Research Knowledge Base/Internet :
Use resources to find similar issues and potential solutions.••
Step 3: Establish a Theory of Probable Cause :
Question the Obvious : Consider simple causes first. •
Consider Multiple Approaches : E.g., Divide and Conquer . ••
Step 4: Test the Validity of the Theory :
Perform tests to confirm or rule out the theory.••••
Episode 2: Troubleshooting Methodology Pt. 2
Filename : comptia -itfunfc0u61 -8-1-2-troubleshooting -methodology -pt2 •
Description : Don and Ronnie continue the 8 -step troubleshooting model, covering the remaining 
procedures and solving the problem introduced in the first part.•
Content :
Step 5: Establish a Plan of Action :
Resolve the Problem : Identify the steps to implement the solution. •
Identify Potential Effects : Consider any impact on other systems. ••
Step 6: Implement the Solution :
Apply the fix or escalate as necessary . ••
Step 7: Verify Full System Functionality :
Confirm that the problem is resolved and the system is working as expected.•
Implement Preventive Measures : Take steps to avoid recurrence. ••
Step 8: Document Findings :
Record Lessons Learned : Detail the issue, actions taken, and outcomes for future 
reference.•••
Episode 3: Troubleshooting Example
Filename : comptia -itfunfc0u61 -8-2-1-troubleshooting_example •
Description : Don and Ronnie apply the 8 -step troubleshooting model to a real -life hardware issue, 
demonstrating the process from start to finish.•
Content :
Walkthrough of the Troubleshooting Steps :
Identify the Problem : Gather initial details and duplicate the hardware issue. •
Research and Establish a Theory : Look for possible causes. •
Test the Theory : Validate the suspected cause through testing. •
Establish a Plan : Create a step -by-step plan to address the problem. •
Implement the Solution : Apply the fix to resolve the hardware issue. •
Verify Functionality : Ensure the computer is working correctly after the fix. •
Document Findings : Record what was learned during the troubleshooting process. •••8. Troubleshooting
Thursday, October 10, 2024 8:34 AM
   Comptia ITF+ Page 242    
Performance By Topic
Collapse All Compare with Others
Topics
Score
Time
Answered Questions
Total Questions
All Questions
65.33%
00:15
75
75
IT Concepts and Terminology
61.54%
00:25
13
13
Compare and contrast notational systems.
66.67%
00:08
3
3
Compare and contrast fundamental data types and their characteristics.
100%
01:49
2
2
Illustrate the basics of computing and processing.
100%
00:06
1
1
Explain the value of data and information.
50%
00:18
2
2
Compare and contrast common units of measure.
25%
00:09
4
4
Explain the troubleshooting methodology.
100%
00:06
1
1
Infrastructure
81.25%
00:12
16
16
Classify common types of input/output device interfaces.
100%
00:05
2
2
Given a scenario, set up and install common peripheral devices to a laptop/PC.
100%
00:03
1
1
Explain the purpose of common internal computing components.
33.33%Application Architecture:Exam Results
Friday, October 11, 2024 12:06 PM
   Comptia ITF+ Page 243    
33.33%
00:11
3
3
Compare and contrast common Internet service types.
100%
00:13
2
2
Compare and contrast common computing devices and their purposes.
0%
00:20
1
1
Explain basic networking concepts.
100%
00:07
3
3
Given a scenario, install, configure and secure a basic wireless network.
100%
00:20
4
4
Applications and Software
71.43%
00:09
14
14
Manage applications and software.
100%
00:07
2
2
Compare and contrast components of an operating system.
50%
00:08
2
2
Explain the purpose and proper use of software.
100%
00:08
2
2
Explain methods of application architecture and delivery models.
50%
00:09
4
4
Given a scenario, configure and use web browsers.
50%
00:08
2
2
Compare and contrast general application concepts and uses.
100%
00:12
2
2
Software Development Concepts
44.44%
00:14
9
9
Compare and contrast programming language categories.
50%
00:06
2
2
Given a scenario, use programming organizational techniques and interpret logic.
50%
00:22
4
   Comptia ITF+ Page 244    
4
4
Explain the purpose and use of programming concepts.
33.33%
00:10
3
3
Database Fundamentals
75%
00:23
8
8
Explain database concepts and the purpose of a database.
66.67%
00:38
3
3
Compare and contrast various database structures.
100%
00:18
2
2
Summarize methods used to interface with databases.
66.67%
00:11
3
3
Security
53.33%
00:14
15
15
Summarize confidentiality, integrity, and availability concerns.
100%
00:15
1
1
Summarize behavioral security concepts.
50%
00:19
2
2
Compare and contrast authentication, authorization, accounting, and non -repudiation 
concepts.
33.33%
00:14
3
3
Explain password best practices.
100%
00:11
3
3
Explain common uses of encryption.
25%
00:14
4
4
Explain business continuity concepts.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 245    
Question #7 of 75 Question ID: 1257445
Which kind of application architecture includes making a purchase on the Internet?
¥ A) n -tier
x © B) Two -tier
% © C) Three -tier
x D) One -tier Explanation
Making a purchase on the Intemet is an example of n -tier application architecture. There might be 
several layers beyond three -tier:
e The web browser is the Presentation layer.
e The checkout cart is another layer.
« Customer information is controlled by another layer. e Credit card entry and verification is another 
layer.
e Shipping is another layer.
Tiers are separated into layers. The presentation layer (also called the client layer) is how the application 
appears to the user and how the user interacts with the application. The logic or programming layer 
uses what is generated in the presentation layer to create data. Data is the information that is used by 
the application.
With a one -tier application, the presentation, logic, and data layers are all in the same location. 
Examples include a locally installed application or a game on a smartphone that is played without a 
cellular or Wi -Fi connection.
The two -tier application architecture model can be represented by a local network -hosted application. 
Two -tier means two devices are needed. such as a local computer and a network server, to associate the 
user interface with the application’s programming and data.
Three -tier applications have each tier on a separate device. An example of this is Google Docs, where 
the presentation layer is on a user device such as a smartphone or computer, the logic layer is the 
application running from the Google Docs site, and the data layer contains the documents created and 
stored in Google Drive.
Objective: Applications and Software
Sub-Objective: Explain methods of application architecture and delivery models.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 19: Getting Apps From Source 
to Your Device. Application Architecture Models
v © A)  T S x © B) Ext x © C)  AT32 v —D) HFS+ Explanation
NTFS and HFS+ file systems support compression. Neither Ext4 nor FAT32 support compression. With 
Ext4 and FAT32, 3 separate application would need to be used, such 35 gzip or pkzip, respectively, to 
compress files.
Compression is 3 way to reduce the amount of space necessary to store a file, allowing 3 drive to store 
more data. One way to look at compression is that it removes excess space in the file, much like vacuum 
suction reduces the amount of storage needed for 3 bag. Text files and documents are greatly reduced 
through compression, whereas mukimedia files, such as music, video, and images, do not benefit as 
much.
There are many file features. Not all features are available in all file systems. Some features include:
e Encryption scrambles the content of a file, folder, or drive so that it is unreadable to an unauthorized 
user. FAT32 uses 3 separate application, but encryption is supported by Ext4, NTFS, and HFS+. Encrypted 
files use a recovery key, similar to a password, to allow a user to open the file.
« Permissions are assigned to folders and files, and groups and users are granted those permissions. In 
the NTFS file system, the permissions are Full Control, Modify, Read and Execute, List Folder Contents, 
Read, and Write. When 3 permission is assigned to 3 folder and subsequently 3 subfolder is added to 
that folder, the subfolder inhents the permissions from the parent folder. A file inherits the permissions 
from the folder it is in. A subfolder, however, can be configured to NOT inherit permissions from its 
parent folder, shown for Sub Folder 1 in the graphic.
e Journaling is a feature that monitors changes that are occurring or about to occur to a drive. If a 
system crash occurs or the power goes out during a major update, journaling would make ®@ much 
easier to recover the drive. NTFS, HFS+, and Ext4 support journaling.
Every file system has limitations. They include the size of the volume, the largest file size. number of files 
per volume, and number of files per folder. The following exhibit shows the file size limits of several file 
systems.
Operating System File -size Limit Win22 wi FATIFAT32 2GB/4GB
Win22 wi NTFS 278 (possibly larger)
Linux 2.2 -Intel 32 -bit 2GB (LFS 4GB)
Linux 2 4+ (using ex43 file system) 4T8 Solaris 9/10
MacOS X wi HES+ 278
NetiVare wWINSS fle system 38718
File systems have naming rules, often called naming conventions. Files have 3 name (preferably 
describing the contents), followed by 3 dot, followed by an extension. The extension tells the operating 
system what type of file it is and uses the application specified (either by default or by user settings) to 
open it.Friday, October 11, 2024 12:22 PM
   Comptia ITF+ Page 246    
NetiVare wWINSS fle system 38718
File systems have naming rules, often called naming conventions. Files have 3 name (preferably 
describing the contents), followed by 3 dot, followed by an extension. The extension tells the operating 
system what type of file it is and uses the application specified (either by default or by user settings) to 
open it.
WUeSTION F1U OT /D Question ID: 1257376
Which of the following represents one bit? (Choose all that apply.)
A) anibble B) PB
Cc) 0
D) 1
E) 01000001
x X A © XK X&
F) F3
Explanation
A bit is represented as an individual 0 or 1, and is the level at which the processor operates. All 
commands must be translated to a 0 or a 1 So that the processor can use it. A bit is the smallest 
measurement of storage on a computer.
The values of 0 and 1 can also be used to represent no or yes, as well as false or true.
01000001 would represent a byte. A byte is a collection of eight bits (Os and 1s), such as 01000001. A 
single character in a plaintext file requires a byte to store it.
A nibble is a measurement of four bits, or half a byte.
F3 would be a hexadecimal number. Hexadecimal (or “hex”) numbers are based on values from 0 -9 
followed by A -F, with A -F representing the decimal numbers 10 -15.
eee eee ee
Pecma OB ee fo fees
Hexadecimal numbers are often represented as pairs, such as E& and 2F, but 32 can also be a 
hexadecimal number.
APB is a petabyte, roughly one quadrillion (1,125,899,906.842,620) bytes, with each byte representing 
eight bits. To put it in perspective, a PB would be enough storage to hold approximately 20,000 -45,000 
full-length HD movies.
Objective: IT Concepts and Terminology
   Comptia ITF+ Page 247    
   Comptia ITF+ Page 248    
   Comptia ITF+ Page 249    
   Comptia ITF+ Page 250    
   Comptia ITF+ Page 251    
   Comptia ITF+ Page 252    
   Comptia ITF+ Page 253    
   Comptia ITF+ Page 254    
Computer Literacy –knowing how it works, many systems work similarlyLinkedinLearning
Tuesday, January 14, 2025 8:35 AM
   Comptia ITF+ Page 255    
Hello ChatGPT I have taken 4 exams, I want you to list out all incorrect 
questions and answers and then I would like for you to create a study 
guide highlighting questions I got wrong as well as ones I got right.
Exam 1
Question 1 Incorrect
Which of the following is a correct way to concatenate two strings in many programming 
languages?
Correct answer
str1 + str2
str1 . str2
Your answer is incorrect
str1 & str2
str1, str2
Overall explanation
A) In many programming languages, the +operator is used for string concatenation.
Incorrect Answers:
B) This option is incorrect as the .is not commonly used for string concatenation in most 
programming languages.
C) This option is incorrect because the &operator is not typically used for string concatenation.
D) This option is incorrect because the comma ,is not commonly used for string concatenation 
in most programming languages.
Question 2 Correct
If you have a storage device with a capacity of 50 gigabytes (GB), how many megabytes (MB) is 
that equivalent to?
Your answer is correct
50,000 MB
500 MB
5,000 MB
50 MB
Overall explanation
A) One gigabyte (GB) is equivalent to 1,024 megabytes (MB), so 50 GB is equal to 50 * 1,024 = 
50,000 MB.Thursday, February 06, 2025 2:31 PM
   Comptia ITF+ Page 256    
Incorrect Answers:
B) This option is incorrect because it represents the capacity of the storage device in gigabytes, 
not megabytes.
C) This option is incorrect because it miscalculates the conversion from gigabytes to megabytes.
D) This option is incorrect because it significantly underestimates the storage capacity in 
megabytes.
Question 3 Correct
Which data type is typically used to store whole numbers in programming?
Char
String
Your answer is correct
Integer
Float
Overall explanation
C) The int(integer) data type is commonly used to store whole numbers in programming.
Incorrect Answers:
A) This option is incorrect because the char data type is used to represent a single character, 
not whole numbers.
B) This option is incorrect because the string data type is used to represent sequences of 
characters, not whole numbers.
D)This option is incorrect because the float data type is used to represent floating -point 
numbers, not whole numbers.
Question 4 Correct
Which interface is commonly used to connect external storage devices, such as hard drives and 
flash drives, to a computer?
HDMI (High -Definition Multimedia Interface)
VGI (Video Graphics Array)
Your answer is correct
eSATA
FireWire (IEEE 1394)
Overall explanation
C) eSATA is indeed commonly used to connect external storage devices like hard drives to a 
computer. It provides a high -speed and reliable connection specifically designed for external 
storage, making it suitable for tasks that require fast data transfer rates.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 257    
Incorrect Answers:
A) HDMI is primarily used for transmitting audio and video signals, not for connecting storage 
devices.
B) VGA is an older video connector standard used for connecting monitors to computers and 
other devices. It does not support data transfer and is not used for connecting external storage 
devices to a computer.
D) FireWire is an older interface that was used for connecting various devices, including storage 
devices, but it has become less common in recent years.
Question 5 Correct
Which of the following is an example of an input device in a computer system?
Central Processing Unit (CPU)
Your answer is correct
Keyboard
Random Access Memory (RAM)
Hard Disk Drive (HDD)
Overall explanation
B) An input device is used to enter data into a computer system. The keyboard is a common 
example of an input device.
Incorrect Answers:
A) This option is incorrect because the CPU is the central processing unit responsible for 
executing instructions, not an input device.
C) This option is incorrect because RAM is a type of memory used for temporary data storage, 
not an input device.
D) This option is incorrect because the hard disk drive is a storage device used for long -term 
data storage, not an input device.
Question 6 Correct
What is the primary function of the CPU (Central Processing Unit) in a computer system?
Stores and retrieves data
Manages input devices
Your answer is correct
Executes instructions and performs calculations
Provides long -term data storage
Overall explanation
C) The CPU is the central processing unit of a computer system, responsible for executing 
instructions and performing calculations.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 258    
Incorrect Answers:
A) This option is incorrect because the storage and retrieval of data are typically handled by 
storage devices such as hard drives.
B) This option is incorrect because the management of input devices is not the primary function 
of the CPU.
D) This option is incorrect because long -term data storage is typically handled by storage 
devices like hard drives, not the CPU.
Question 7 Correct
What does copyright primarily protect in the realm of intellectual property?
Ideas and concepts
Names and slogans
Inventions and processes
Your answer is correct
Original creative works
Overall explanation
D) Copyright primarily protects original creative works, including literary works, music, art, and 
other forms of expression fixed in a tangible medium.
Incorrect Answers:
A) This option is incorrect because copyright does not protect ideas and concepts but rather the 
expression of those ideas in a tangible form.
B) This option is incorrect because the protection of names and slogans is more closely 
associated with trademarks, not copyright.
C) This option is incorrect because the protection of inventions and processes is typically 
associated with patents, not copyright.
Question 8 Correct
What is the key purpose of a patent in the field of intellectual property?
To protect brand identities
To secure exclusive rights for artistic works
Your answer is correct
To disclose and protect new inventions or discoveries
To enforce ownership of domain names
Overall explanation
C) The key purpose of a patent is to disclose and protect new inventions or discoveries, granting 
the inventor exclusive rights for a limited period.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 259    
Incorrect Answers:
A) This option is incorrect because the protection of brand identities is more closely associated 
with trademarks, not patents.
B) This option is incorrect because securing exclusive rights for artistic works is typically 
associated with copyright, not patents.
D) This option is incorrect because enforcing ownership of domain names is not the primary 
purpose of a patent.
Question 9 Incorrect
Which of the following storage units is the smallest and represents the basic unit of digital 
information?
Kilobyte (KB)
Correct answer
Bit
Megabyte (MB)
Your answer is incorrect
Byte
Overall explanation
B) The bit is the smallest storage unit and represents the basic unit of digital information. It can 
have a value of either 0 or 1.
Incorrect Answers:
A) This option is incorrect because a kilobyte is larger than a bit; it consists of 8,000 bits.
C) This option is incorrect because a megabyte is larger than a bit; it consists of 8 million bits.
D) This option is incorrect because a byte is larger than a bit; it consists of 8 bits.
Question 10 Correct
What is the initial step in the troubleshooting methodology when faced with a technical issue?
Identify the cause
Implement a solution
Test the solution
Your answer is correct
Define the problem
Overall explanation
D) The initial step in the troubleshooting methodology is to define the problem. This involves 
gathering information, understanding symptoms, and clarifying the nature of the issue before 
proceeding with troubleshooting.
Incorrect Answers:
   Comptia ITF+ Page 260    
Incorrect Answers:
A) Identifying the cause comes after defining the problem in the troubleshooting process.
B) Implementing a solution is a later step in the troubleshooting process, not the initial one.
C) Testing the solution occurs after a potential solution has been implemented, which is a later 
step in the troubleshooting process.
Question 11 Correct
What is the purpose of the "Verify Full System Functionality" step in the troubleshooting 
methodology?
To re -define the problem
Your answer is correct
To confirm that the identified issue has been resolved
To implement additional solutions
To document the troubleshooting process
Overall explanation
B) The purpose of the "Verify Full System Functionality" step is to confirm that the identified 
issue has been resolved after implementing the chosen solution. It ensures that the system 
functions as expected.
Incorrect Answers:
A) The step to re -define the problem typically occurs at the beginning of the troubleshooting 
process, not after implementing the solution.
C) Implementing additional solutions is not the primary purpose of verifying full system 
functionality; it may happen in earlier stages if necessary.
D) Documenting the troubleshooting process is a separate step and may occur throughout the 
troubleshooting process, not specifically at the verification stage.
Question 12 Correct
Which interface is commonly used for connecting high -definition monitors and displays to 
computers and other devices?
USB (Universal Serial Bus)
DVI (Digital Visual Interface)
Your answer is correct
DisplayPort
PS/2
Overall explanation
C) DisplayPort is commonly used for connecting high -definition monitors and displays to 
computers and other devices.
Incorrect Answers:
   Comptia ITF+ Page 261    
Incorrect Answers:
A) USB is not primarily designed for high -definition video transmission.
B) DVI is another video interface, but DisplayPort has become more common for newer high -
definition displays.
D) PS/2 is an older interface used for connecting keyboards and mice, not for high -definition 
displays.
Question 13 Incorrect
When setting up a new printer on a computer, what is the typical sequence of steps to ensure 
proper installation?
Connect the printer, install drivers, and then power on the printer
Your answer is incorrect
Power on the printer, connect it, and then install drivers
Install drivers, power on the printer, and then connect it
Correct answer
Install drivers, connect the printer, and then power on the printer
Overall explanation
D) The typical sequence for setting up a new printer is to install the required drivers first, then 
connect the printer to the computer, and finally, power on the printer.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Installing drivers before connecting the printer is a best practice to ensure proper 
communication.
B) Installing drivers before connecting the printer is recommended to avoid potential issues.
C) Connecting the printer after installing drivers ensures that the system recognizes and 
configures the printer correctly.
Question 14 Correct
What is a typical use case for constants in programming?
Storing values that change during program execution
Representing named storage locations for data
Your answer is correct
Defining values that remain fixed throughout the program
Managing dynamic memory allocation
Overall explanation
C) Constants are typically used to define values that remain fixed throughout the program, 
providing a way to use meaningful names for fixed values.
Incorrect Answers:
   Comptia ITF+ Page 262    
Incorrect Answers:
A) Storing values that change is the role of variables, not constants.
B) This describes the role of identifiers and variables, not specifically constants.
D) Dynamic memory allocation is typically handled by pointers and memory management 
functions, not constants.
Question 15 Correct
A Network Administrator is responsible for ensuring secure communication between the 
company's website and the users' browsers. The Admin wants to implement a protocol that 
encrypts data during transmission to prevent unauthorized access. Which protocol should the 
Admin choose for this purpose?
HTTP
Your answer is correct
HTTPS
POP3
SMTP
Overall explanation
B) For secure communication between a website and users' browsers, Sarah should choose 
HTTPS (Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure). It encrypts data during transmission, providing a 
secure and encrypted connection.
Incorrect Answers:
A) HTTP is not secure and does not encrypt data during transmission.
C) POP3 is an email retrieval protocol and is not used for securing website communication.
D) SMTP is used for sending emails and is not suitable for securing website communication.
Question 16 Correct
When troubleshooting a network connectivity issue, what is a common approach to test a 
theory about the cause of the problem?
Checking hardware specifications
Running a virus scan
Your answer is correct
Conducting a ping test
Installing software updates
Overall explanation
C) When troubleshooting network connectivity issues, conducting a ping test is a common 
approach to test a theory about the cause. It helps verify if there is a successful communication 
between devices on the network.
Incorrect Answers:
   Comptia ITF+ Page 263    
Incorrect Answers:
A) Checking hardware specifications is more relevant to verifying the compatibility of hardware 
components, not specifically for testing network connectivity theories.
B) Running a virus scan is a security measure and is not directly related to testing theories 
about network connectivity issues.
D) Installing software updates is a general maintenance practice and may not be directly related 
to troubleshooting specific network connectivity issues.
Question 17 Incorrect
What is the decimal equivalent of the hexadecimal number 1A?
Correct answer
26
Your answer is incorrect
16
10
31
Overall explanation
A) The hexadecimal number 1A is equivalent to 26 in decimal. In hexadecimal, A represents 10, 
so 1A is calculated as (1 * 16) + 10 = 26.
Incorrect Answers:
B) Incorrect conversion of the hexadecimal number 1A to decimal.
C) Incorrect conversion; A in hexadecimal represents 10, not the entire number.
D) Incorrect conversion; 1A in hexadecimal is not equal to 31 in decimal.
Question 18 Correct
What is the primary purpose of Random Access Memory (RAM) in a computer system?
Long -term storage of data
Your answer is correct
Temporary storage of frequently used programs and data
Execution of mathematical calculations
Management of peripheral devices
Overall explanation
B) The primary purpose of Random Access Memory (RAM) in a computer system is the 
temporary storage of frequently used programs and data to provide quick access for the CPU.
Incorrect Answers:
   Comptia ITF+ Page 264    
Incorrect Answers:
A) Long -term storage of data is typically handled by storage devices like hard drives or solid -
state drives, not RAM.
C) Execution of mathematical calculations is the primary function of the CPU, not RAM.
D) The management of peripheral devices is typically handled by input/output controllers, not 
RAM.
Question 19 Incorrect
What is a common characteristic of DSL and cable internet services?
Similar installation costs
Correct answer
Shared bandwidth among users
Exclusive use of fiber -optic cables
Your answer is incorrect
Limited availability in rural areas
Overall explanation
B) A common characteristic of both DSL and cable internet services is the sharing of bandwidth 
among users in a particular neighborhood or service area.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Installation costs for DSL and cable internet services can vary based on factors such as 
provider offerings and infrastructure.
C) DSL and cable internet services do not exclusively use fiber -optic cables; they may use 
copper coaxial cables for cable and twisted pair copper cables for DSL.
D) While availability can vary, both DSL and cable internet services are often available in rural as 
well as urban areas.
Question 20 Correct
What is the role of the ALU (Arithmetic Logic Unit) in the processing component of a computer?
Manages input devices
Your answer is correct
Performs arithmetic and logical operations
Stores data for long -term storage
Executes program instructions
Overall explanation
B) The ALU (Arithmetic Logic Unit) is a component of the CPU responsible for performing 
arithmetic and logical operations as instructed by the program.
Incorrect Answers:
   Comptia ITF+ Page 265    
Incorrect Answers:
A) This option is incorrect because managing input devices is not the primary role of the ALU.
C) This option is incorrect because storing data for long -term storage is typically handled by 
storage devices, not the ALU.
D) While the ALU is involved in executing program instructions, the broader task of executing 
instructions is the responsibility of the entire CPU, not just the ALU.
Question 21 Correct
Which of the following BEST describes the primary function of a Primary Key in a relational 
database?
Storing large amounts of text data
Your answer is correct
Ensuring data integrity by uniquely identifying each record
Accelerating database query speed
Controlling access permissions to the database
Overall explanation
B) The primary function of a Primary Key in a relational database is to ensure data integrity by 
uniquely identifying each record within a table.
Incorrect Answers:
A) The primary key is not designed for storing data but for uniquely identifying records.
C) While Primary Keys can improve query performance, their primary purpose is to ensure data 
integrity.
D) Access permissions are typically managed through other mechanisms, not the Primary Key.
Question 22 Correct
What is the primary disadvantage of DSL internet compared to Cable and Fiber Optic services?
Limited availability in rural areas
Your answer is correct
Slower upload and download speeds
Higher susceptibility to signal interference
Dependence on existing infrastructure
Overall explanation
B) The primary disadvantage of DSL internet compared to Cable and Fiber Optic services is the 
generally slower upload and download speeds.
Incorrect Answers:
A) While availability can vary, this option is not the primary disadvantage of DSL compared to 
other services.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 266    
other services.
C) DSL may be susceptible to signal interference, but it's not the primary disadvantage 
compared to slower speeds.
D) While DSL relies on existing telephone infrastructure, this is not the primary disadvantage 
compared to slower speeds.
Question 23 Correct
Alice, a tech enthusiast planning to upgrade her laptop's storage. She's seeking a storage option 
that provides faster data access and doesn't have any moving parts. Which storage type would 
you recommend to Alice?
USB Flash Drive
External Hard Drive
Your answer is correct
Solid State Drive (SSD)
Internal Hard Disk Drive (HDD)
Overall explanation
C) For Alice's need for faster data access and a storage option without moving parts, a Solid 
State Drive (SSD) is the ideal recommendation due to its speed and lack of mechanical 
components.
Incorrect Answers:
A) While USB Flash Drives are fast and portable, they may not offer the same storage capacity 
as an SSD.
B) External Hard Drives have moving parts and are not as fast as SSDs, making them less 
suitable for Alice's requirements.
D) HDDs have moving parts and are generally slower than SSDs, making them less suitable for 
Alice's desire for faster data access.
Question 24 Correct
What is a key advantage of Solid State Drives (SSDs) over spinning disk Hard Disk Drives (HDDs) 
in terms of power consumption?
SSDs consume more power during operation
Your answer is correct
SSDs consume less power during operation
Power consumption is similar for both SSDs and HDDs
Power consumption is not a relevant factor for storage devices
Overall explanation
B) A key advantage of SSDs over HDDs is that they generally consume less power during 
operation, contributing to improved energy efficiency.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 267    
Incorrect Answers:
A) SSDs are known for their lower power consumption compared to HDDs.
C) While power consumption can vary, SSDs are typically more energy -efficient than HDDs.
D) Power consumption is a relevant factor, and SSDs are often preferred for their lower power 
consumption, especially in mobile and battery -powered devices.
Question 25 Correct
Which statement accurately describes the role of a compiler in programming languages?
A compiler interprets code line by line during program execution
Your answer is correct
A compiler translates source code into machine code before execution
A compiler manages database queries in query languages
A compiler is primarily used in scripting languages
Overall explanation
B) A compiler translates the entire source code of a program into machine code or an 
intermediate code before the program is executed.
Incorrect Answers:
A) This describes an interpreter, not a compiler.
C) Database query management is not the primary role of a compiler.
D) Compilers are used in a variety of programming languages, including compiled languages, 
not exclusively in scripting languages.
Question 26 Incorrect
John works for a company where employees need to access their emails on different devices 
such as laptops, smartphones, and tablets. The company values a synchronized mailbox 
experience across devices. Which email protocol would be the most suitable for this scenario?
HTTP
Your answer is incorrect
POP3
Correct answer
IMAP
SMTP
Overall explanation
C) In a scenario where employees need to access emails on different devices and maintain 
synchronization, IMAP (Internet Message Access Protocol) is the most suitable. It allows users 
to manage their emails on the server, ensuring consistency across multiple devices.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 268    
Incorrect Answers:
A) HTTP is not an email retrieval protocol; it is used for web communication.
B) POP3 is designed for downloading emails to a local client, making it less suitable for scenarios 
requiring synchronization across devices.
D) SMTP is used for sending emails, not for accessing them or synchronization.
Question 27 Correct
What is the data type commonly used to represent a single character?
Your answer is correct
Char
String
Integer
Float
Overall explanation
A) The char data type is used to represent a single character in programming languages.
Incorrect Answers:
B) This option is incorrect because a string is a sequence of characters, not a single character.
C) This option is incorrect because an integer is used to represent whole numbers, not 
individual characters.
D) This option is incorrect because a float is used to represent floating -point numbers, not 
characters.
Question 28 Correct
Which Wi -Fi security protocol was introduced to address vulnerabilities found in WEP and 
provide a more robust encryption method?
WEP
Your answer is correct
WPA
WPA3
SSID
Overall explanation
B) WPA (Wi -Fi Protected Access) was introduced to address the vulnerabilities found in WEP 
and provide a more robust encryption method. It improved Wi -Fi security by addressing the 
weaknesses in WEP encryption and authentication mechanisms. This is the correct answer.
Incorrect Answers:
A) WEP is an outdated and less secure protocol that WPA2 was designed to replace.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 269    
A) WEP is an outdated and less secure protocol that WPA2 was designed to replace.
C) WPA3 is the latest generation of Wi -Fi security protocols, designed to enhance Wi -Fi security 
further. However, it was not the initial protocol introduced to address the vulnerabilities in 
WEP. WPA came before WPA3/WPA2 and was specifically designed for that purpose.
D) SSID (Service Set Identifier) is the name of a Wi -Fi network and is not a security protocol.
Question 29 Correct
What is the primary purpose of the BIOS (Basic Input/Output System) in a computer system?
Execution of applications
Temporary storage of frequently used programs
Providing a user interface for the operating system
Your answer is correct
Initializing hardware components during the boot process
Overall explanation
D) The primary purpose of the BIOS (Basic Input/Output System) in a computer system is to 
initialize hardware components during the boot process, ensuring that the system is ready for 
operation.
Incorrect Answers:
A) The execution of applications is handled by the operating system and the CPU, not the BIOS.
B) Temporary storage of frequently used programs is typically handled by RAM, not the BIOS.
C) Providing a user interface is a function of the operating system, not the BIOS.
Question 30 Correct
What is the purpose of establishing a Foreign Key relationship between two tables?
Combining data from the tables into a single table
Your answer is correct
Ensuring each record in the child table has a corresponding record in the parent table
Restricting access to certain columns in the tables
Increasing the storage capacity of the database
Overall explanation
B) The purpose of establishing a Foreign Key relationship is to ensure referential integrity, 
meaning each record in the child table has a corresponding record in the parent table.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Combining data from different tables is not the primary purpose of a Foreign Key 
relationship.
C) Access restrictions are typically managed through other security mechanisms, not Foreign 
Keys.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 270    
Keys.
D) Foreign Keys do not directly impact the storage capacity of the database.
Question 31 Incorrect
David, a network administrator, is configuring a new Wi -Fi network for a small office. The 
employees need to connect their devices securely, and David wants a protocol that supports 
both personal and enterprise -level security. Which Wi -Fi security protocol would be the most 
appropriate choice for this scenario?
WEP
WPA
Your answer is incorrect
WPA2
Correct answer
WPA3
Overall explanation
D) For a new Wi -Fi network that requires both personal and enterprise -level security, WPA3 is 
the most appropriate choice. WPA3 is the latest and most secure Wi -Fi security protocol, 
offering enhanced security features suitable for both personal and enterprise use.
Incorrect Answers:
A) WEP is an outdated and insecure protocol and is not recommended for new networks.
B) While WPA is more secure than WEP, WPA3 is the latest standard and offers additional 
security features.
C) WPA2 is a secure option, but WPA3 is the latest and recommended for new installations.
Question 32 Incorrect
Which computing device is dedicated to managing and distributing network resources, 
providing services such as file storage, printing, and authentication?
Your answer is incorrect
Router
Correct answer
Server
Switch
Firewall
Overall explanation
B) In a network environment, a server is dedicated to managing and distributing network 
resources, providing services such as file storage, printing, and authentication.
Incorrect Answers:
   Comptia ITF+ Page 271    
A) Routers manage data traffic between different networks but are not dedicated to providing 
services like file storage and printing.
C) Switches manage network traffic within a local network but are not typically responsible for 
providing services like file storage and printing.
D) Firewalls control access and protect networks from unauthorized access but do not provide 
services like file storage and printing.
Question 33 Correct
When connecting a new external monitor to a laptop, what type of cable is commonly used for 
transmitting both video and audio signals?
Your answer is correct
HDMI (High -Definition Multimedia Interface)
VGA (Video Graphics Array)
DVI (Digital Visual Interface)
DisplayPort
Overall explanation
A) HDMI is commonly used for connecting external monitors to laptops because it can transmit 
both video and audio signals over a single cable.
Incorrect Answers:
B) VGA is a video -only interface and does not transmit audio signals.
C) DVI is primarily a video interface and does not carry audio signals.
D) DisplayPort can transmit both video and audio, but HDMI is more commonly used for 
connecting external monitors to laptops.
Question 34 Incorrect
How does an operating system contribute to application management on a computer system?
By writing application code
Your answer is incorrect
By providing a user interface
Correct answer
By allocating system resources
By designing user interfaces
Overall explanation
C) An operating system contributes to application management by allocating system resources 
such as memory, processing time, and input/output devices to applications running on the 
computer system.
Incorrect Answers:
   Comptia ITF+ Page 272    
Incorrect Answers:
A) Writing application code is the responsibility of software developers, not the operating 
system.
B) While an operating system may provide a user interface, it is not the primary contribution to 
application management.
D) Designing user interfaces is generally the responsibility of software developers or user 
interface designers, not the operating system.
Question 35 Correct
What is a key difference between Random Access Memory (RAM) and Read -Only Memory 
(ROM) in terms of data storage?
Your answer is correct
RAM is volatile, while ROM is non -volatile
ROM is used for temporary storage, while RAM is for permanent storage
Both RAM and ROM are non -volatile
RAM is slower than ROM
Overall explanation
A) A key difference between RAM and ROM is that RAM is volatile (loses data when powered 
off), while ROM is non -volatile (retains data even when powered off).
Incorrect Answers:
B) ROM is typically used for permanent storage, while RAM is for temporary storage during 
system operation.
C) RAM is volatile, losing data when power is off, while ROM is non -volatile.
D) The speed of RAM and ROM is not determined by their volatility, and in general, RAM is 
faster than ROM.
Question 36 Correct
How does an operating system contribute to effective memory management when multiple 
applications are running concurrently?
By limiting the number of running applications
By optimizing application code
Your answer is correct
By providing a memory manager and virtual memory
By increasing storage device capacity
Overall explanation
C) An operating system contributes to effective memory management when multiple 
applications are running concurrently by providing a memory manager and virtual memory. 
This allows the efficient allocation and sharing of system memory among running applications.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 273    
Incorrect Answers:
A) Limiting the number of running applications is a restrictive approach and is not the primary 
method used for effective memory management.
B) Optimizing application code is generally the responsibility of developers, not the operating 
system, although the OS may contribute indirectly through resource allocation.
D) Increasing storage device capacity is related to disk management, not memory management.
Question 37 Incorrect
What is a key benefit of using a 64 -bit version of a web browser over a 32 -bit version?
Faster internet speed
Your answer is incorrect
Improved security features
Enhanced support for web standards
Correct answer
Increased memory addressing capabilities
Overall explanation
D) A key benefit of using a 64 -bit version of a web browser is its increased memory addressing 
capabilities, which can lead to improved performance when handling multiple tabs or resource -
intensive web applications.
Incorrect Answers:
A) The bit architecture of a web browser is not directly related to the speed of the internet 
connection. Internet speed is influenced by various factors, such as the network connection 
itself.
B) The bit architecture alone does not determine the security features of a web browser. 
Security features depend on the specific implementation and updates of the browser.
C) Support for web standards is more related to the features and updates implemented in the 
browser, rather than its bit architecture
Question 38 Correct
Which of the following file systems is commonly used in Windows operating systems and 
supports advanced features such as file encryption, disk quotas, and compression?
FAT32
HFS
Ext4
Your answer is correct
NTFS
Overall explanation
D) NTFS (New Technology File System) is commonly used in Windows operating systems and 
   Comptia ITF+ Page 274    
D) NTFS (New Technology File System) is commonly used in Windows operating systems and 
supports advanced features such as file encryption, disk quotas, and compression.
Incorrect Answers:
A) FAT32 is an older file system that lacks some of the advanced features found in NTFS.
B) HFS (Hierarchical File System) is primarily associated with macOS and does not support the 
same advanced features as NTFS.
C) Ext4 is a file system used in Linux operating systems and, while robust, does not have the 
same features as NTFS.
Question 39 Correct
Which file system is suitable for use in USB flash drives and external storage devices due to its 
compatibility with various operating systems, including Windows, macOS, and Linux, but has 
limitations on file size and lacks some advanced features?
Your answer is correct
FAT32
HFS
Ext4
NTFS
Overall explanation
A) FAT32 is suitable for use in USB flash drives and external storage devices due to its 
compatibility with various operating systems, including Windows, macOS, and Linux. However, 
it has limitations on file size (4 GB maximum) and lacks some advanced features found in NTFS 
and Ext4.
Incorrect Answers:
B) HFS is primarily associated with macOS and may not be as universally compatible with 
various operating systems.
C) Ext4 is a file system used in Linux and may not be as compatible with Windows without 
additional software.
D) While NTFS is commonly used in Windows, its compatibility with macOS and Linux may 
require additional drivers or software. Additionally, it may not be the best choice for removable 
storage due to its proprietary nature.
Question 40 Correct
What is the primary purpose of declaring variables with appropriate data types in a 
programming language?
To assign a name to a variable
To indicate the scope of a variable
Your answer is correct
To define the set of values a variable can hold
   Comptia ITF+ Page 275    
To define the set of values a variable can hold
To specify the visibility of a variable
Overall explanation
C) Declaring variables with appropriate data types specifies the set of values the variable can 
hold, ensuring proper usage and storage of data.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Assigning a name to a variable is part of declaring it but does not encompass the full 
purpose.
B) The scope of a variable is determined by its declaration and usage within the code, not its 
data type.
D) Visibility is often related to scope but is not directly determined by the data type of a 
variable.
Question 41 Incorrect
In a software development environment, when might a programmer choose to use a 
console/command line interface for version control tasks?
Correct answer
When visualizing branching and merging history
Your answer is incorrect
When reviewing code changes with side -by-side comparisons
When committing code changes to a repository
When creating a new branch for feature development
Overall explanation
A) In a software development environment, a programmer might choose to use a 
console/command line interface for version control tasks, such as visualizing branching and 
merging history, which can be efficiently displayed through text -based tools.
Incorrect Answers:
B) Reviewing code changes with side -by-side comparisons is often done through graphical tools 
integrated into IDEs (Integrated Development Environments).
C) Committing code changes to a repository can be performed through both console/command 
line interfaces and GUIs, depending on the programmer's preference.
D) Creating a new branch for feature development can be done through both 
console/command line interfaces and GUIs, depending on the version control system in use.
Question 42 Correct
When might a system administrator prefer using a console/command line interface over a GUI 
for server management tasks?
Your answer is correct
   Comptia ITF+ Page 276    
Your answer is correct
When configuring a firewall
When creating graphical reports
When installing a new software with a wizard
When setting up a user's desktop preferences
Overall explanation
A) In a professional IT environment, a system administrator might prefer using a 
console/command line interface for tasks like configuring a firewall, which often involves 
specific commands and is more efficiently handled through text -based interfaces.
Incorrect Answers:
B) Creating graphical reports is a task that is better suited for a GUI where visualization tools 
are readily available.
C) Installing new software with a wizard is a user -friendly task that is typically performed 
through a GUI, not a console/command line.
D) Setting up a user's desktop preferences is a user -centric task that is typically done through a 
GUI for ease of use.
Question 43 Correct
Which software tool is best suited for organizing and analyzing numerical data, performing 
calculations, and creating charts and graphs to visualize data trends?
Presentation software
Visual diagramming software
Your answer is correct
Spreadsheet software
Web browser
Overall explanation
C) Spreadsheet software is best suited for organizing and analyzing numerical data, performing 
calculations, and creating charts and graphs to visualize data trends.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Presentation software is used for creating slideshows and visual presentations, not 
organizing and analyzing numerical data.
B) Visual diagramming software is used for creating diagrams and visual representations, not 
organizing and analyzing numerical data.
D) A web browser is used for accessing and navigating the internet, not organizing and 
analyzing numerical data.
Question 44 Correct
Which data type is employed to express true or false values?
   Comptia ITF+ Page 277    
Which data type is employed to express true or false values?
Integer
Float
String
Your answer is correct
Boolean
Overall explanation
D) Boolean data types are used to represent true or false values. In most programming 
languages, they are typically denoted as "true" and "false" and are crucial for implementing 
conditional logic and decision -making in code.
Incorrect Answers:
A) This data type is used to represent whole numbers, not true or false values.
B) Float is used to represent floating -point numbers, not true or false values.
C) String is used to represent text or sequences of characters, not true or false values.
Question 45 Incorrect
What is the primary disadvantage of Fiber Optic internet compared to Cable and DSL services?
Your answer is incorrect
Limited availability in urban areas
Greater susceptibility to weather -related outages
Correct answer
Higher installation costs
Slower upload and download speeds
Overall explanation
C) The primary disadvantage of Fiber Optic internet compared to Cable and DSL services is often 
higher installation costs, as the deployment of fiber -optic infrastructure can be more expensive.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Fiber Optic internet is commonly available in urban areas; limited availability is not its 
primary disadvantage.
B) Fiber Optic is generally less susceptible to weather -related outages compared to cable and 
DSL.
D) Fiber Optic is known for faster upload and download speeds compared to Cable and DSL 
services.
Question 46 Incorrect
What is a key feature of a "Group Use/Site License" for software?
Your answer is incorrect
   Comptia ITF+ Page 278    
Your answer is incorrect
It is limited to a specific number of users within a defined group
Correct answer
It allows the software to be used on any device regardless of location
It requires individual licenses for each user within the group
It provides a time -limited trial version of the software
Overall explanation
B) A group use/site license typically allows the software to be used on any device within a 
defined group or site, regardless of location.
Incorrect Answers:
A) This describes a restricted user license, not a group use/site license.
C) A group use/site license typically covers all users within a defined group, and individual 
licenses may not be required.
D) This describes a trial or demo license, not a group use/site license.
Question 47 Correct
What is a benefit of using a Type 1 Hypervisor in a virtualization environment?
It requires less hardware resources than a Type 2 Hypervisor.
It provides a more user -friendly interface for virtualization.
Your answer is correct
It offers better performance and resource efficiency.
It is primarily designed for desktop virtualization.
Overall explanation
C) A Type 1 Hypervisor, running directly on hardware, generally provides better performance 
and resource efficiency compared to a Type 2 Hypervisor.
Incorrect Answers:
A) While Type 1 Hypervisors can be resource -efficient, the comparison with Type 2 Hypervisors 
depends on specific use cases.
B) The user interface is not a primary factor distinguishing Type 1 and Type 2 Hypervisors.
D) Type 1 Hypervisors are more commonly associated with server virtualization rather than 
desktop virtualization.
Question 48 Correct
As an e -commerce website administrator, why is it important to implement effective caching 
strategies to improve user experience?
To reduce the need for secure HTTPS connections
To ensure all users see personalized content on every visit
   Comptia ITF+ Page 279    
To ensure all users see personalized content on every visit
Your answer is correct
To minimize server load and speed up page loading times for returning visitors
To enforce stricter security measures for online transactions
Overall explanation
C) Effective caching strategies help minimize server load and speed up page loading times for 
returning visitors, improving overall user experience on an e -commerce website.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Caching is not directly related to reducing the need for secure HTTPS connections, which are 
crucial for security.
B) Caching is designed to improve performance by serving cached content, which may not 
always reflect personalized user content.
D) While caching can enhance performance, it is not a direct measure for enforcing stricter 
security measures for online transactions. Security measures are typically handled separately.
Question 49 Correct
In a corporate environment with strict security policies, why might an IT administrator choose 
to deactivate client -side scripting for all company computers?
To improve the user experience of internal web applications
To enable personalized content on company websites
Your answer is correct
To mitigate the risk of cross -site scripting (XSS) attacks
To allow employees to use browser extensions freely
Overall explanation
C) Deactivating client -side scripting can help mitigate the risk of cross -site scripting (XSS) 
attacks, which is crucial in maintaining strict security policies in a corporate environment.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Deactivating client -side scripting may impact the functionality of internal web applications, 
potentially reducing the user experience.
B) Client -side scripting is often used for personalization, so deactivating it may hinder the 
display of personalized content on company websites.
D) Deactivating client -side scripting is not directly related to allowing or disallowing the use of 
browser extensions.
Question 50 Correct
What distinguishes open source software from proprietary software?
Open source software is always free of charge, while proprietary software is paid
Your answer is correct
   Comptia ITF+ Page 280    
Your answer is correct
Open source software allows users to view, modify, and distribute its source code
Proprietary software is only available for personal use, while open source can be used 
commercially
Open source software is developed exclusively by large corporations
Overall explanation
B) One of the key distinctions is that open source software allows users to view, modify, and 
distribute its source code, fostering collaboration and community involvement.
Incorrect Answers:
A) While many open source programs are free, the distinction is not solely based on payment. 
Some proprietary software can be free or open source.
C) Both open source and proprietary software can be used for personal or commercial 
purposes.
D) Open source software can be developed by individuals, small teams, or large corporations, 
and the development model encourages community contributions.
Question 51 Incorrect
What is a key characteristic of a vector in programming compared to an array?
Correct answer
Vectors can dynamically resize during runtime
Your answer is incorrect
Arrays can hold elements of different data types
Vectors are limited to a fixed size at declaration
Arrays automatically manage memory allocation
Overall explanation
A) A key characteristic of vectors in programming, especially in languages with dynamic 
memory allocation, is their ability to dynamically resize during runtime.
Incorrect Answers:
B) Arrays typically hold elements of the same data type, similar to vectors.
C) Unlike arrays, vectors can dynamically resize, so they are not limited to a fixed size at 
declaration.
D) Memory management for arrays often involves manual allocation and deallocation, similar 
to vectors.
Question 52 Incorrect
What is a potential disadvantage of using arrays in certain programming scenarios?
Arrays lack support for parallel processing
   Comptia ITF+ Page 281    
Your answer is incorrect
Arrays can only store elements of the same data type
Correct answer
Arrays have a fixed size and cannot be resized
Arrays can lead to inefficient memory usage in dynamic scenarios
Overall explanation
C) A potential disadvantage of using arrays in certain scenarios is that they have a fixed size at 
declaration and cannot be resized dynamically.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Arrays can be used in parallel processing, and parallel arrays are a common technique in 
certain scenarios.
B) While arrays typically store elements of the same data type, this is not necessarily a 
disadvantage.
D) This is more applicable to dynamic data structures like lists or vectors rather than arrays.
Question 53 Correct
In the context of databases, what does the term "database dump" typically refer to?
Exporting data in a human -readable format
Your answer is correct
Creating a snapshot of the entire database structure and content
Deleting unnecessary data from a database
Importing data into a database from an external source
Overall explanation
B) A database dump refers to creating a snapshot of the entire database structure and content, 
usually in a file format.
Incorrect Answers:
A) While exporting data is part of the dump process, a database dump usually involves a more 
comprehensive snapshot.
C) Database dump is about creating a backup, not deleting data.
D) Database dump is related to exporting, not importing.
Question 54 Incorrect
What is the purpose of initializing a variable when it is declared in a programming language?
To allocate memory for the variable
To indicate the scope of the variable
Correct answer
   Comptia ITF+ Page 282    
Correct answer
To assign an initial value to the variable
Your answer is incorrect
To define the data type of the variable
Overall explanation
C) Initializing a variable when declared involves assigning an initial value to the variable, 
preventing it from containing arbitrary or undefined data.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Memory allocation is typically part of the variable declaration process, but initialization 
involves assigning an initial value.
B) The scope of a variable is determined by its declaration and usage, not its initialization.
D) The data type of a variable is usually defined separately from its initialization.
Question 55 Correct
Which SQL command is used to retrieve data from a database?
INSERT
DELETE
UPDATE
Your answer is correct
SELECT
Overall explanation
D) The SELECT command in SQL is used to retrieve data from one or more tables in a database.
Incorrect Answers:
A) INSERT is used to add new records to a table.
B) DELETE is used to remove records from a table.
C) UPDATE is used to modify existing records in a table.
Question 56 Correct
You are tasked with retrieving specific information from a customer database to generate a 
monthly sales report. Which SQL command would you use to accomplish this task?
INSERT
DELETE
UPDATE
Your answer is correct
SELECT
Overall explanation
   Comptia ITF+ Page 283    
Overall explanation
D) In this scenario, you would use the SELECT command to retrieve specific information from 
the customer database, such as sales data, to generate a monthly sales report.
Incorrect Answers:
A) INSERT is used for adding new records, not retrieving data.
B) DELETE is used for removing records, not retrieving data.
C) UPDATE is used for modifying existing records, not retrieving data.
Question 57 Incorrect
A developer is writing a Python script to retrieve data from a database and perform data 
processing tasks. Which database access method is the developer utilizing?
Direct/manual access
Correct answer
Programmatic access
User interface/utility access
Your answer is incorrect
Ad-hoc access
Overall explanation
B) The developer, by writing a Python script, is utilizing programmatic access to interact with 
the database.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Direct/manual access involves executing queries manually, not through a script.
C) User interface/utility access involves using graphical tools, not writing scripts.
D)  Ad -hoc access refers to on -the-fly, unplanned access, and it does not specifically describe 
script -based access.
Question 58 Correct
In a cloud storage service, users want to be certain that their uploaded files will persistently 
remain accessible and unchanged over time. What feature of cloud storage addresses this 
requirement?
Data encryption
Redundancy
Versioning
Your answer is correct
Data persistence
Overall explanation
D) Data persistence ensures that uploaded files in a cloud storage service remain accessible and 
   Comptia ITF+ Page 284    
D) Data persistence ensures that uploaded files in a cloud storage service remain accessible and 
unchanged over time.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Data encryption is a security measure that protects data during transmission or storage but 
does not guarantee persistence.
B) Redundancy is a measure of having duplicate copies of data for fault tolerance, but it doesn't 
guarantee the persistence of specific files.
C) Versioning allows tracking changes to files over time but does not directly ensure their 
persistence.
Question 59 Correct
What is the primary benefit of using pseudocode when designing algorithms?
It can be directly executed by a computer
It provides a detailed syntax for programming languages
It allows for easy collaboration between team members
Your answer is correct
It abstracts the implementation details, focusing on the algorithm's logic
Overall explanation
D) The primary benefit of pseudocode is that it abstracts the implementation details, allowing 
designers to focus on the logic of the algorithm without getting bogged down by syntax or 
specific programming language details.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Pseudocode is not meant for direct execution; it's a planning tool.
B) Pseudocode is intentionally less detailed than actual code and doesn't provide syntax details.
C) While collaboration is a benefit, the primary advantage is the abstraction of implementation 
details.
Question 60 Incorrect
What is a common purpose of using product keys or serial numbers in software licensing?
To track user behavior and preferences
To grant access to online support forums
Correct answer
To facilitate software installation and activation
Your answer is incorrect
To enforce restrictions on software usage
Overall explanation
C) Product keys or serial numbers are commonly used to facilitate the installation and 
   Comptia ITF+ Page 285    
C) Product keys or serial numbers are commonly used to facilitate the installation and 
activation of software, ensuring that only licensed copies are in use.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Tracking user behavior and preferences is not typically associated with product keys or serial 
numbers.
B) Access to support forums is often separate from the licensing process and may require a 
different set of credentials.
D) While product keys may be part of enforcing licensing restrictions, they are not the primary 
means of enforcing software usage restrictions.
Question 61 Incorrect
What is a key feature of key/value databases in terms of data retrieval?
Your answer is incorrect
Support for complex queries
Correct answer
Efficient retrieval of single keys
Use of SQL for retrieval
Automatic normalization of data
Overall explanation
B) Key/value databases excel at efficiently retrieving data based on single keys, making them 
suitable for simple key -based access patterns.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Key/value databases are generally optimized for simple key -based access and may not 
support complex queries.
C) Key/value databases often do not use SQL for retrieval; they have a simpler API for key -based 
operations.
D) Key/value databases typically do not perform automatic normalization; they are designed for 
simplicity and performance in key -based access.
Question 62 Incorrect
Employees often discuss sensitive project details over unsecured Wi -Fi networks in coffee 
shops. What security concern is most likely to be exploited in this scenario?
Snooping
Correct answer
Eavesdropping
Your answer is incorrect
Wiretapping
Social engineering
   Comptia ITF+ Page 286    
Social engineering
Overall explanation
B) In this scenario, the most likely security concern is eavesdropping, as sensitive project details 
communicated over an unsecured Wi -Fi network could be intercepted without the knowledge 
of the employees.
Incorrect Answers:
A) While related, eavesdropping is a more accurate term for unauthorized interception of 
communication.
C) Wiretapping is more associated with physical interception of communication cables, not Wi -
Fi networks.
D) Social engineering involves manipulating individuals, not directly intercepting 
communication over networks.
Question 63 Correct
An employee receives an email that appears to be from the IT department, asking for login 
credentials due to a system upgrade. What security concern is most likely at play in this 
situation?
Snooping
Eavesdropping
Wiretapping
Your answer is correct
Social engineering
Overall explanation
D) This scenario is indicative of social engineering, as the attacker attempts to manipulate the 
employee into divulging login credentials through a deceptive email.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Snooping is more related to the unauthorized interception of data or communication.
B) Eavesdropping is associated with passive monitoring rather than active attempts to 
manipulate individuals.
C) Wiretapping involves the interception of voice communication, not login credentials via 
email.
Question 64 Correct
An employee inadvertently leaves a printed document with sensitive customer information on 
a shared printer, and others have access to the printed document. What security concern is 
most relevant in this case?
Your answer is correct
Snooping
   Comptia ITF+ Page 287    
Eavesdropping
Wiretapping
Social engineering
Overall explanation
A) In this situation, snooping is the relevant security concern, as individuals could access and 
view sensitive information that was inadvertently left on a shared printer.
Incorrect Answers:
B) Eavesdropping is more associated with the interception of communication rather than 
viewing printed documents.
C) Wiretapping involves the interception of voice communication, not physical documents.
D) Social engineering involves manipulation of individuals, not the accidental exposure of 
printed documents.
Question 65 Correct
What does the term "non -repudiation" refer to when applied to video evidence?
The ability to edit and modify video footage
The assurance that the video was captured in real -time
The prevention of unauthorized access to video files
Your answer is correct
The inability to deny the authenticity of recorded video content
Overall explanation
D) In the context of video evidence, non -repudiation ensures that the authenticity of recorded 
video content cannot be denied, providing assurance about the integrity of the footage.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Non -repudiation is about preventing denial of authenticity, not the ability to edit or modify 
footage.
B) While real -time capture may be relevant, non -repudiation focuses on the inability to deny 
authenticity rather than real -time assurance.
C) Non -repudiation is not primarily concerned with preventing unauthorized access to video 
files; it's about proving the authenticity of the content.
Question 66 Correct
What role does a digital certificate play in the context of HTTPS and data in transit security?
Authenticating email recipients
Encrypting email content
Your answer is correct
Authenticating the identity of a website
   Comptia ITF+ Page 288    
Authenticating the identity of a website
Compressing data for faster transmission
Overall explanation
C) A digital certificate in the context of HTTPS plays a crucial role in authenticating the identity 
of a website, ensuring that users are connecting to a legitimate and secure site.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Digital certificates are not typically used to authenticate email recipients in the context of 
email communication.
B) While digital certificates are involved in the encryption process, their primary role in HTTPS is 
to authenticate the identity of the website, not to encrypt email content.
D) Digital certificates are not involved in data compression for faster transmission; their role is 
in authentication and encryption.
Question 67 Correct
What is a key advantage of off -site cloud storage over on -site storage in terms of disaster 
recovery?
On-site storage provides faster data recovery in case of disasters.
Your answer is correct
Off-site cloud storage ensures data redundancy and geographic diversity.
On-site storage is less susceptible to natural disasters.
Off-site cloud storage has lower initial setup costs.
Overall explanation
B) Off -site cloud storage often provides data redundancy by storing data in multiple geographic 
locations, enhancing disaster recovery capabilities.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Cloud storage, with its redundancy and distributed architecture, can offer comparable or 
even faster data recovery in disaster scenarios.
C) On -site storage can be susceptible to local disasters, while cloud storage's geographic 
diversity can enhance resilience.
D) The advantage mentioned relates to disaster recovery capabilities, not initial setup costs.
Question 68 Correct
What is the primary purpose of disk -level encryption for data at rest?
Protecting individual files from unauthorized access
Enhancing the performance of data retrieval
Preventing physical damage to the storage device
Your answer is correct
   Comptia ITF+ Page 289    
Securing the entire contents of the storage device
Overall explanation
D) Disk -level encryption is designed to secure the entire contents of a storage device, including 
the operating system and all data stored on the disk.
Incorrect Answers:
A) This is a characteristic of file -level encryption, not disk -level encryption.
B) Disk -level encryption may introduce some overhead, but its primary purpose is security, not 
performance enhancement.
C) Disk -level encryption does not prevent physical damage; it focuses on protecting data from 
unauthorized access.
Question 69 Incorrect
Why are written policies and procedures important in an organization's IT environment?
They provide a legal framework for IT operations.
Your answer is incorrect
They serve as guidelines for ethical behavior in the workplace.
Correct answer
They help standardize and communicate expectations for IT practices.
They contribute to improving physical security measures.
Overall explanation
C) Written policies and procedures in an IT environment help standardize practices, 
communicate expectations, and ensure consistency in IT operations.
Incorrect Answers:
A) While policies and procedures may have legal implications, their primary role is to guide and 
standardize, not to establish a legal framework.
B) Ethical guidelines are often part of policies, but the primary purpose is to standardize 
practices.
D) While policies may include security measures, their primary focus is broader than just 
physical security.
Question 70 Correct
What is the primary purpose of a Security Awareness Training Policy in an organization?
To establish guidelines for physical security measures.
To define the frequency of employee breaks during working hours.
Your answer is correct
To ensure that employees are aware of security risks and best practices.
To outline procedures for employee recruitment and hiring.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 290    
To outline procedures for employee recruitment and hiring.
Overall explanation
C) A Security Awareness Training Policy focuses on educating employees about security risks 
and best practices to enhance the organization's overall security.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Physical security measures are usually covered by a separate policy.
B) Employee breaks are typically addressed in a policy related to working hours or break times.
D) Recruitment and hiring procedures are generally covered in a separate policy, not a Security 
Awareness Training Policy.
Question 71 Correct
Which of the following is a potential security risk associated with data in transit for email 
communication if encryption is not used?
Unauthorized access to stored emails
Your answer is correct
Intercepting and reading emails during transmission
Corruption of email attachments
Excessive use of network bandwidth
Overall explanation
B) If encryption is not used for data in transit in email communication, there is a potential risk 
of unauthorized individuals intercepting and reading emails during transmission.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Data in transit refers to communication in motion, not stored data. Unauthorized access to 
stored emails would be a concern for data at rest.
C) Corruption of attachments is a potential risk but is not specific to data in transit without 
encryption.
D) The absence of encryption does not directly lead to excessive network bandwidth usage; it is 
more related to transmission speed.
Question 72 Correct
Which of the following is an example of Single Factor Authentication?
Using a password and a fingerprint scan.
Entering a PIN after inserting an access card.
Your answer is correct
Answering security questions during login.
Scanning a retina and providing a smart card.
Overall explanation
   Comptia ITF+ Page 291    
Overall explanation
C) Answering security questions is an example of Single Factor Authentication, as it relies on a 
single form of verification.
Incorrect Answers:
A) This is an example of Multifactor Authentication, combining a password and a biometric 
scan.
B) This involves using two factors —something the user knows (PIN) and something the user has 
(access card).
D) This is an example of Multifactor Authentication, combining a biometric scan and a smart 
card.
Question 73 Incorrect
Which factor is typically included in password complexity requirements to enhance security?
Your answer is incorrect
The length of the password.
The frequency of password changes.
Correct answer
The use of a specific character set.
The number of login attempts allowed.
Overall explanation
C) Password complexity requirements often include using a specific character set (e.g., 
uppercase letters, lowercase letters, numbers, special characters) to enhance security.
Incorrect Answers:
A) While password length is important for security, it is not specifically related to complexity 
requirements.
B) Password change frequency is a different aspect addressed by password expiration policies.
D) This pertains to account lockout policies rather than password complexity.
Question 74 Correct
What is a critical consideration when restoring access to IT systems after a disaster?
Completing a comprehensive audit of all IT assets.
Ensuring that all data is permanently deleted.
Your answer is correct
Verifying the integrity of restored data and systems.
Implementing new security policies for prevention.
Overall explanation
C) A critical consideration when restoring access after a disaster is verifying the integrity of 
   Comptia ITF+ Page 292    
C) A critical consideration when restoring access after a disaster is verifying the integrity of 
restored data and systems to ensure they function correctly and securely.
Incorrect Answers:
A) While auditing IT assets is important, it is not the primary consideration when restoring 
access after a disaster.
B) Data restoration is about recovering data, not permanently deleting it.
D) Implementing new security policies is typically done as part of the recovery and 
improvement process, not during the immediate restoration of access.
Question 75 Correct
In disaster recovery planning, what is the significance of prioritization?
It determines the frequency of data backups.
Your answer is correct
It identifies the order in which systems and data are restored.
It establishes the geographical locations for data storage.
It defines the roles and responsibilities of recovery teams.
Overall explanation
B) Prioritization in disaster recovery planning involves identifying the order in which systems 
and data should be restored, ensuring critical functions are restored first.
Incorrect Answers:
A) The frequency of data backups is part of the backup strategy, not prioritization in the 
recovery process.
C) Geographical locations for data storage are more related to redundancy and data center 
planning, not prioritization.
D) Roles and responsibilities of recovery teams are usually outlined in the disaster recovery plan 
but are not the primary focus of prioritization.
Exam 2
Question 1 Incorrect
What is the range of values for ASCII characters?
Correct answer
0 to 127
Your answer is incorrect
0 to 255
-128 to 127
-255 to 255
Overall explanation
   Comptia ITF+ Page 293    
Overall explanation
A) ASCII characters are represented using 7 bits, resulting in a range of values from 0 to 127.
Incorrect Answers:
B) While some character encoding schemes use 8 bits, the standard ASCII range is from 0 to 127.
C) ASCII uses only positive values, so the range is from 0 to 127.
D) ASCII does not use negative values, and the range is limited to non -negative values from 0 to 127.
Question 2 Correct
How many bits are typically used to represent a character in the Unicode standard?
7 bits
8 bits
Your answer is correct
16 bits
32 bits
Overall explanation
C) 16 bits. In the Unicode standard, a character is typically represented using 16 bits.
Incorrect Answers:
A) 7 bits. This is the typical representation size for ASCII, not Unicode.
B) 8 bits. While there are Unicode encoding schemes that use 8 bits, the common representation size is 
16 bits.
D) 32 bits. There are Unicode encoding schemes that use 32 bits, but the common representation size is 
16 bits for most characters.
Question 3 Incorrect
What is the primary purpose of a trademark in the context of intellectual property?
To protect ideas and concepts.
To establish ownership of physical inventions.
Correct answer
To identify and distinguish goods or services.
Your answer is incorrect
To prevent unauthorized access to digital assets.
Overall explanation
C) The primary purpose of a trademark is to identify and distinguish goods or services in the 
marketplace, creating a unique identifier for a brand.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Trademarks are not designed to protect ideas or concepts; they focus on the identification of 
products or services.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 294    
products or services.
B) Trademarks are not used to establish ownership of physical inventions; patents are more appropriate 
for this purpose.
D) Trademark protection does not involve preventing unauthorized access to digital assets; it focuses on 
brand identification.
Question 4 Correct
How many gigabytes (GB) are equivalent to one terabyte (TB)?
100 GB
500 GB
Your answer is correct
1024 GB
2048 GB
Overall explanation
C) One terabyte (TB) is equivalent to 1024 gigabytes (GB).
Incorrect Answers:
A) This value is not correct for the conversion from terabytes to gigabytes.
B) This value is not correct for the conversion from terabytes to gigabytes.
D) This value is not correct for the conversion from terabytes to gigabytes.
Question 5 Correct
What is the primary unit used to measure storage capacity beyond terabytes (TB)?
Kilobyte (KB)
Your answer is correct
Petabyte (PB)
Megabyte (MB)
Gigabyte (GB)
Overall explanation
B) Beyond terabytes, the primary unit used to measure storage capacity is the petabyte (PB).
Incorrect Answers:
A) Kilobyte (KB). Kilobyte is a smaller unit and is not used for measuring storage capacity beyond 
terabytes.
C) Megabyte (MB). Megabyte is a smaller unit and is not used for measuring storage capacity beyond 
terabytes.
D) Gigabyte (GB). Gigabyte is a smaller unit and is not used for measuring storage capacity beyond 
terabytes.
Question 6 Incorrect
What does the term "bps" stand for when measuring data throughput?
Your answer is incorrect
   Comptia ITF+ Page 295    
Your answer is incorrect
Bytes per Second
Correct answer
Bits per Second
Bandwidth per Second
Binary Processing Speed
Overall explanation
B) "bps" stands for "Bits per Second," and it is a unit used to measure the rate of data transfer in a 
network or communication channel.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Bytes per Second: This is incorrect; "bps" refers to bits, not bytes.
C) Bandwidth per Second: While related to throughput, the specific unit for measuring data transfer is 
bits per second.
D) Binary Processing Speed: This is not a standard term for measuring data throughput.
Question 7 Correct
If a computer has a processor with a speed of 3.2 GHz and another computer has a processor with a 
speed of 1600 MHz, which processor is faster?
Your answer is correct
The 3.2 GHz processor
The 1600 MHz processor
Both processors are equally fast
It cannot be determined from the given information
Overall explanation
A) The 3.2 GHz processor is faster because 1 GHz is equivalent to 1000 MHz. Therefore, 3.2 GHz is 
equivalent to 3200 MHz.
Incorrect Answers:
B) This is incorrect; the 3.2 GHz processor has a higher frequency.
C) This is incorrect; the GHz processor is faster.
D) The information provided is sufficient to determine that the 3.2 GHz processor is faster.
Question 8 Correct
What should the technician do FIRST when troubleshooting a computer that suddenly shuts down 
without warning?
Reinstall the operating system
Check for overheating and clean the cooling system
Duplicate the problem on another computer
Your answer is correct
Gather information about the shutdown behavior
   Comptia ITF+ Page 296    
Gather information about the shutdown behavior
Overall explanation
D) Gathering information about the circumstances of the sudden shutdown, such as any error messages 
or recent activities, is the initial step in troubleshooting.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Reinstalling the operating system is a drastic step and should not be the first action taken.
B) While important, this is not the first step in the troubleshooting process.
C) Duplicating the problem is not the first step for hardware -related issues.
Question 9 Correct
When a printer is not responding to print requests, what should the technician do FIRST?
Replace the printer with a new one
Your answer is correct
Check the printer's power and connectivity
Gather information about the user's printing history
Duplicate the problem on another computer
Overall explanation
B) When a printer is not responding, the technician should first check basic elements like power and 
connectivity to ensure the printer is operational.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Replacing the printer is not the initial step; troubleshooting should precede hardware replacement.
C) Gathering user information is valuable but not the first action for a non -responsive printer.
D) Duplicating the problem on another computer is not the initial step for printer issues.
Question 10 Correct
If a technician believes that a software update is causing a computer issue, what is the BEST way to test 
this theory?
Your answer is correct
Roll back the software update to a previous version
Install additional software updates
Reinstall the entire operating system
Replace the computer hardware
Overall explanation
A) Testing the theory involves reverting the system to a state before the software update to see if the 
issue persists, confirming or disproving the hypothesis.
Incorrect Answers:
B) Installing more updates may not help identify the specific cause of the issue and could introduce new 
   Comptia ITF+ Page 297    
B) Installing more updates may not help identify the specific cause of the issue and could introduce new 
variables.
C) Reinstalling the entire operating system is a drastic step and may not be necessary to test the theory.
D) Replacing hardware is typically not the first step in testing a software -related theory.
Question 11 Correct
If a technician suspects that a faulty RAM module is causing a computer to crash, what is the BEST 
method to test this theory?
Replace the RAM module with a new one
Your answer is correct
Run a memory diagnostic tool to test the RAM
Ignore the RAM and focus on other components
Duplicate the problem on another computer
Overall explanation
B) Testing the theory involves using a memory diagnostic tool to check for errors in the suspected RAM 
module, providing specific information about its functionality.
Incorrect Answers:
A) While this may solve the problem, testing the theory involves confirming that the existing RAM is 
faulty.
C) If the theory is specifically related to faulty RAM, it should be tested before exploring other 
components.
D) Duplicating the problem on another computer is not a direct method for testing the functionality of a 
specific RAM module.
Question 12 Incorrect
Which of the following is a high -speed interface primarily used for connecting external hard drives, 
video cameras, and audio interfaces to a computer?
Your answer is incorrect
Thunderbolt
Bluetooth
RF
Correct answer
FireWire
Overall explanation
D) FireWire (also known as IEEE 1394) is a high -speed interface commonly used for connecting devices 
like external hard drives, video cameras, and audio interfaces to a computer.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Thunderbolt: Thunderbolt is another high -speed interface, but FireWire is a distinct technology.
B) Bluetooth: Bluetooth is a wireless communication technology, not a wired interface like FireWire.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 298    
C) RF: RF (Radio Frequency) refers to wireless communication but is not a specific interface like FireWire.
Question 13 Incorrect
Which peripheral connection technology supports both data transfer and the daisy -chaining of multiple 
devices using a single port?
Bluetooth
RF
Correct answer
Thunderbolt
Your answer is incorrect
FireWire
Overall explanation
C) Thunderbolt is a peripheral connection technology that supports high -speed data transfer and allows 
for the daisy -chaining of multiple devices using a single port.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Bluetooth is a wireless technology but does not support daisy -chaining or high -speed data transfer 
like Thunderbolt.
B) RF (Radio Frequency) refers to wireless communication but is not a specific peripheral connection 
technology.
D) FireWire supports high -speed data transfer but does not inherently support daisy -chaining like 
Thunderbolt.
Question 14 Correct
When installing a camera to a laptop or PC, which connection method is commonly used for data 
transfer and video streaming?
Your answer is correct
USB
HDMI
Thunderbolt
Ethernet
Overall explanation
A) Cameras are commonly connected to laptops or PCs using USB (Universal Serial Bus) ports for data 
transfer and video streaming.
Incorrect Answers:
B) HDMI is used for video and audio signals, but it's not the primary connection method for cameras to 
laptops or PCs.
C) Thunderbolt is not as commonly used for cameras as USB.
D) Ethernet is used for network connectivity and is not the typical connection method for cameras.
Question 15 Correct
   Comptia ITF+ Page 299    
In a small office, employees need a centralized storage solution for shared documents and collaborative 
projects. The IT administrator is evaluating options for easy file access and management. What network 
storage type would be most suitable for this scenario?
Cloud storage
Your answer is correct
NAS (Network Attached Storage)
USB flash drives
External hard drives
Overall explanation
B) For a small office requiring centralized and shared storage, a NAS (Network Attached Storage) device 
is a suitable solution. NAS allows multiple users to access files over the local network, providing a 
convenient and centralized storage option.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Cloud storage involves storing data on remote servers, which may not be the most suitable for a small 
office looking for local network storage.
C) USB flash drives are portable storage devices, and while they can be shared, they may not offer the 
centralized management required in a small office.
D) External hard drives provide additional storage, but they may lack the collaborative features and ease 
of access provided by a NAS in a networked environment.
Question 16 Correct
When setting up a new mouse on a laptop or PC, what feature is often included in the device to enhance 
precision and control?
Acceleration control
Ambidextrous design
Tactile feedback
Your answer is correct
Adjustable DPI settings
Overall explanation
D) Adjustable DPI (Dots Per Inch) settings are often included in mice to enhance precision and control, 
allowing users to customize sensitivity levels.
Incorrect Answers:
A) While acceleration control may affect mouse behavior, adjustable DPI is more directly related to 
precision.
B) Ambidextrous design refers to the mouse's ergonomic shape and is not directly related to precision 
features.
C) Tactile feedback relates to the physical response of buttons and may not directly enhance precision.
Question 17 Correct
A user reports that their computer is frequently shutting down unexpectedly. The technician suspects a 
hardware issue. What hardware component should the technician check FIRST?
   Comptia ITF+ Page 300    
hardware issue. What hardware component should the technician check FIRST?
Hard drive
Memory (RAM)
Your answer is correct
Power supply unit (PSU)
Graphics card
Overall explanation
C) Unexpected shutdowns can be caused by power supply issues. The technician should check the power 
supply unit (PSU) to ensure it is supplying stable power to the computer components.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Hard drive issues may cause data -related problems but are less likely to result in sudden shutdowns.
B) Memory issues can lead to crashes, but unexpected shutdowns are often associated with power -
related problems.
D) Graphics card issues may affect display but are less likely to cause sudden shutdowns unless related 
to power supply problems.
Question 18 Correct
What is the primary advantage of plug -and-play installations over traditional driver installations?
Enhanced device performance
Greater customization options
Your answer is correct
Immediate device recognition and functionality
Improved security features
Overall explanation
C) The primary advantage of plug -and-play installations is the immediate recognition and functionality of 
the device without the need for manual intervention or additional software installation.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Plug -and-play focuses on ease of installation rather than performance enhancements.
B) Plug -and-play may limit customization options compared to installations involving specific drivers.
D) Security features are not the primary focus of plug -and-play installations.
Question 19 Correct
Which storage device is more likely to be used for high -performance applications that require rapid data 
access, such as gaming or video editing?
Hard Drive (HDD)
USB Flash Drive
Your answer is correct
Solid State Drive (SSD)
CD-ROM
   Comptia ITF+ Page 301    
CD-ROM
Overall explanation
C) SSDs are more likely to be used for high -performance applications due to their faster data access 
speeds compared to traditional HDDs.
Incorrect Answers:
A) HDDs are generally slower than SSDs in terms of data access speed.
B) While USB flash drives are portable and convenient, they may not match the performance of SSDs in 
certain applications.
D) CD -ROMs are optical storage devices and are not typically used for high -performance applications 
requiring rapid data access.
Question 20 Correct
What is the purpose of a MAC address in networking?
Your answer is correct
Identifying devices on a local network
Locating devices on the internet
Assigning IP addresses dynamically
Resolving domain names
Overall explanation
A) MAC addresses are used for identifying devices on a local network. They are unique hardware 
addresses associated with network interface controllers (NICs).
Incorrect Answers:
B) MAC addresses are primarily used within local networks, not for locating devices on the broader 
internet.
C) Assigning IP addresses dynamically is typically handled by protocols like DHCP, not by MAC addresses.
D) Resolving domain names to IP addresses is performed by DNS, not by MAC addresses.
Question 21 Incorrect
Which address is commonly used for communication within the same local network and is typically not 
routable over the internet?
IP address
Correct answer
MAC address
DNS address
Your answer is incorrect
Subnet address
Overall explanation
B) MAC addresses are used for communication within the same local network and are typically not 
routable over the internet.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 302    
routable over the internet.
Incorrect Answers:
A) IP addresses are routable over the internet, and some are reserved for private networks.
C) DNS addresses are used for domain name resolution, not for local network communication.
D) Subnet addresses are part of the IP address space and are used for network segmentation.
Question 22 Correct
What is the primary function of Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) in a network?
Assigning MAC addresses
Your answer is correct
Assigning IP addresses dynamically
Resolving DNS addresses
Assigning subnet addresses
Overall explanation
B) DHCP is used for dynamically assigning IP addresses to devices in a network, eliminating the need for 
manual configuration.
Incorrect Answers:
A) MAC addresses are typically assigned by the device manufacturer and are not assigned dynamically 
by DHCP.
C) DNS addresses are resolved by DNS servers, not by DHCP.
D) Subnet addresses are typically configured manually or through network design, not dynamically by 
DHCP.
Question 23 Correct
Which protocol translates domain names into IP addresses for network communication?
DHCP
Your answer is correct
DNS
HTTP
FTP
Overall explanation
B) DNS (Domain Name System) translates domain names into IP addresses for network communication.
Incorrect Answers:
A) DHCP is responsible for dynamically assigning IP addresses to devices in a network.
C) HTTP is a protocol for transmitting hypermedia documents, not for translating domain names.
D) FTP is a protocol for file transfer, not for translating domain names into IP addresses.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 303    
Question 24 Incorrect
Which device is used to interconnect multiple devices within the same local network, operating at the 
data link layer of the OSI model?
Modem
Your answer is incorrect
Router
Correct answer
Switch
Gateway
Overall explanation
C) A switch is used to interconnect multiple devices within the same local network, operating at the data 
link layer of the OSI model.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Modems handle signal modulation for internet connectivity and are not primarily used for local 
network communication.
B) Routers operate at the network layer and are responsible for connecting different networks, including 
the local network to the internet.
D) A gateway is a more general term and can refer to various devices, including routers and switches.
Question 25 Correct
A user complains about slow webpage loading times. As part of the troubleshooting process, what 
browser setting should you check to ensure that the browser is not using a cached version of the 
webpage?
Your answer is correct
Clear browsing data
Enable pop -up blocking
Disable JavaScript execution
Disable browser extensions
Overall explanation
A) Clearing browsing data, including the cache, helps ensure that the browser fetches the latest version 
of webpages rather than relying on cached content.
Incorrect Answers:
B) Pop -up blocking is unrelated to cached webpage versions and does not impact loading times.
C) Disabling JavaScript execution may affect webpage functionality but does not directly address cached 
versions.
D) Disabling browser extensions is unrelated to clearing the cache and does not ensure the retrieval of 
the latest webpage versions.
Question 26 Incorrect
Which device is responsible for directing data packets between different networks, making decisions 
   Comptia ITF+ Page 304    
Which device is responsible for directing data packets between different networks, making decisions 
based on network layer information and IP addresses?
Modem
Correct answer
Router
Your answer is incorrect
Switch
Repeater
Overall explanation
B) A router is responsible for directing data packets between different networks, making decisions based 
on network layer information and IP addresses.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Modems handle signal modulation for internet connectivity and are not primarily involved in routing 
between networks.
C) Switches operate at the data link layer and are involved in local network communication but do not 
route between different networks.
D) Repeaters amplify and extend network signals but do not make routing decisions.
Question 27 Correct
What type of service relies on the internet for its functionality and is not dependent on local hardware 
resources?
On-premises service
Your answer is correct
Cloud -based service
Standalone service
Offline service
Overall explanation
B) A cloud -based service relies on the internet for its functionality and is not dependent on local 
hardware resources.
Incorrect Answers:
A) On -premises services are installed and run on local hardware resources.
C) A standalone service may or may not require internet access, and its functionality may depend on 
local resources.
D) An offline service operates without internet connectivity and may rely on local resources.
Question 28 Correct
When files are saved in the cloud, where are they typically stored?
Locally on individual devices
On physical servers within the organization's premises
   Comptia ITF+ Page 305    
On physical servers within the organization's premises
Your answer is correct
On remote servers managed by a cloud service provider
On network -attached storage (NAS) devices
Overall explanation
C) When files are saved in the cloud, they are typically stored on remote servers managed by a cloud 
service provider.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Local storage refers to files saved on individual devices, not in the cloud.
B) Cloud storage implies storing data on remote servers managed by external providers, not on local 
premises.
D) NAS devices are local storage solutions and do not represent cloud storage.
Question 29 Correct
What term is used to describe a unique identifier for each row in a relational database table?
Your answer is correct
Key
Index
Schema
Foreign Key
Overall explanation
A) In a relational database table, a key is used to uniquely identify each row. This key is often referred to 
as the primary key.
Incorrect Answers:
B) An index is a database structure that enhances the speed of data retrieval operations but is not 
necessarily a unique identifier for each row.
C) A schema is a logical collection of database objects and relationships, not a unique identifier.
D) A foreign key is a column or a set of columns in a table that refers to the primary key of another table.
Question 30 Correct
What is the purpose of tables in a relational database?
Your answer is correct
To store and organize data in rows and columns
To perform complex calculations on data
To visually represent the database schema
To manage database connections
Overall explanation
A) Tables in a relational database are used to store and organize data in rows and columns, providing a 
structured way to represent information.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 306    
structured way to represent information.
Incorrect Answers:
B) Calculations are typically performed using queries, not tables themselves.
C) Visualization tools may represent the schema, but tables store the actual data.
D) Database connections are managed by the database management system, not by individual tables.
Question 31 Incorrect
What does the term "referential integrity" mean in the context of relational databases?
Ensuring the uniqueness of primary keys
Correct answer
Enforcing constraints on foreign keys
Allowing for NULL values in columns
Your answer is incorrect
Reducing the size of database tables
Overall explanation
B) Referential integrity in the context of relational databases means enforcing constraints on foreign 
keys to maintain consistency in relationships between tables.
Incorrect Answers:
A) While important, ensuring the uniqueness of primary keys is not the sole focus of referential integrity.
C) Referential integrity is more concerned with enforcing relationships than allowing or disallowing NULL 
values.
D) The size of tables is not the primary concern of referential integrity.
Question 32 Incorrect
Which of the following should the technician do FIRST when implementing security measures for a new 
computer network within a company?
Install antivirus software on all devices
Your answer is incorrect
Conduct a security audit of existing systems
Correct answer
Establish a strong password policy
Create regular data backups
Overall explanation
C) Establishing a strong password policy should be the first step in securing a new computer network, as 
it forms a foundational aspect of security.
Incorrect Answers:
A) While important, a strong password policy is a fundamental security measure.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 307    
A) While important, a strong password policy is a fundamental security measure.
B) Conducting a security audit is important but typically comes after establishing foundational security 
measures.
D) Data backups are crucial but are not the first step in securing a new network.
Question 33 Correct
You are tasked with setting up a secure Wi -Fi network for a small office. What should you do FIRST to 
enhance network security?
Implement WPA3 encryption for the Wi -Fi network
Your answer is correct
Change the default administrator password on the router
Configure a guest network for visitors
Rename the default SSID for the Wi -Fi network
Overall explanation
B) Changing the default administrator password is the first step to prevent unauthorized access to the 
router's settings, enhancing overall network security.
Incorrect Answers:
A) While important, configuring the administrator password comes first in establishing control over 
network settings.
C) Guest network setup is a good practice but is not the immediate step to enhance administrator 
control.
D) Changing the SSID can improve security but is not the first step in securing administrative access.
Question 34 Correct
A user contacts you, reporting that their work computer is frequently freezing and slow to respond. 
What should you do FIRST to address this issue as a technician?
Your answer is correct
Run a comprehensive malware scan on the computer
Upgrade the computer's RAM for better performance
Reinstall the operating system to eliminate software issues
Check for and disable unnecessary startup programs
Overall explanation
A) Running a malware scan is the initial step to identify and eliminate potential threats causing system 
performance issues.
Incorrect Answers:
B) Upgrading RAM is a performance improvement measure but may not address the root cause of the 
slowdown.
C) Reinstalling the OS is a drastic step and should come after confirming the presence or absence of 
malware.
D) While relevant, addressing startup programs comes after confirming the absence of malware.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 308    
D) While relevant, addressing startup programs comes after confirming the absence of malware.
Question 35 Incorrect
A technician receives a report from a user about a software application crashing frequently. The user 
provides a screenshot of an error message. What would be the technician's initial step in 
troubleshooting this issue?
Reinstall the application
Correct answer
Check the error message details
Your answer is incorrect
Restart the computer
Update the operating system
Overall explanation
B) When troubleshooting a software crash, the technician's initial step should be to examine the error 
message details. This information often provides clues about the nature of the issue, helping the 
technician identify the root cause.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Reinstalling the application is a more drastic measure and should be considered after understanding 
the specific error.
C) While restarting may resolve some issues, understanding the error details is crucial for targeted 
troubleshooting.
D) Updating the operating system is a good practice but may not directly address the specific issue 
without understanding the error message.
Question 36 Correct
Which of the following is a characteristic of biometric authentication?
Relies on something the user knows.
Involves the use of physical tokens.
Your answer is correct
Utilizes unique physical or behavioral traits for identification.
Requires the entry of a security code.
Overall explanation
C) traits for identification, such as fingerprints, iris patterns, or voice recognition.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Reliance on something the user knows is a characteristic of knowledge -based authentication, not 
biometric authentication.
B) The use of physical tokens is not a characteristic of biometric authentication.
D) Requiring the entry of a security code is a characteristic of knowledge -based or token -based 
authentication, not biometrics.
Question 37 Correct
   Comptia ITF+ Page 309    
Question 37 Correct
What is the purpose of a hardware token in multi -factor authentication (MFA)?
To act as a physical key for unlocking doors.
Your answer is correct
To generate one -time codes for additional authentication.
To provide wireless internet connectivity.
To store large amounts of data securely.
Overall explanation
B) In multi -factor authentication, a hardware token's purpose is often to generate one -time codes, 
adding an additional layer of security beyond traditional passwords.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Physical keys for unlocking doors are not the primary purpose of hardware tokens in the context of 
multi -factor authentication.
C) Providing wireless internet connectivity is not a typical function of hardware tokens.
D) While hardware tokens may have some secure data storage, their primary role is often related to 
authentication, not data storage.
Question 38 Correct
Which of the following BEST describes the least privilege model in cybersecurity?
Granting users maximum access to all resources.
Your answer is correct
Restricting users to the minimum access necessary for their job functions.
Allowing users to define their own access privileges.
Assigning access based on users' job titles.
Overall explanation
B) The least privilege model in cybersecurity is best described as restricting users to the minimum access 
necessary for their job functions, reducing the risk of unauthorized access and potential security 
breaches.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Granting users maximum access contradicts the principles of the least privilege model.
C) Allowing users to define their own access privileges can lead to security vulnerabilities.
D) Assigning access based solely on job titles may not align with the actual responsibilities of individuals.
Question 39 Correct
Which of the following should done FIRST when implementing role -based access control (RBAC) in an 
organization?
Assign permissions based on job titles.
Conduct a comprehensive security audit.
Your answer is correct
   Comptia ITF+ Page 310    
Your answer is correct
Define the roles and responsibilities within the organization.
Grant unrestricted access to all employees and then refine permissions.
Overall explanation
C) FIRST, define the roles and responsibilities within the organization when implementing role -based 
access control (RBAC), as this lays the foundation for assigning appropriate permissions.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Assigning permissions based on job titles is a subsequent step after defining roles and responsibilities.
B) Conducting a comprehensive security audit is important but typically follows role definition in the 
RBAC implementation process.
D) Granting unrestricted access initially contradicts the principles of RBAC and security best practices.
Question 40 Correct
In a mandatory access control (MAC) system, what primarily determines a user's access to resources?
User -defined access permissions.
Users' job roles and responsibilities.
Your answer is correct
Centralized policies set by administrators.
Users' preferences and choices.
Overall explanation
C) In a mandatory access control (MAC) system, access to resources is primarily determined by 
centralized policies set by administrators, limiting user modification.
Incorrect Answers:
A) User -defined access permissions are more characteristic of discretionary access controls (DAC).
B) Users' job roles and responsibilities are factors in other access control models, such as role -based 
access control (RBAC).
D) Users' preferences and choices are not the primary determinants in a MAC system.
Question 41 Incorrect
What is a potential drawback of relying solely on discretionary access controls (DAC) in a large 
organization?
Your answer is incorrect
Limited flexibility for resource owners.
Difficulty in enforcing centralized security policies.
Correct answer
Complexity in managing access permissions.
Dependence on government regulations for access decisions.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 311    
Dependence on government regulations for access decisions.
Overall explanation
C) A potential drawback of relying solely on discretionary access controls (DAC) in a large organization is 
the complexity in managing access permissions, especially as the number of users and resources 
increases.
Incorrect Answers:
A) DAC typically provides flexibility for resource owners.
B) Enforcing centralized security policies is more challenging with DAC but is not the primary drawback.
D) DAC is independent of government regulations for access decisions.
Question 42 Correct
Why is it important to verify the integrity of backups regularly?
To reduce the frequency of backups.
To identify critical data for backup.
Your answer is correct
To ensure that backups can be successfully restored when needed.
To speed up the backup process.
Overall explanation
C) Verifying the integrity of backups regularly is important to ensure that backups can be successfully 
restored when needed, confirming the reliability of the backup process.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Reducing the frequency of backups is not a goal of verifying backup integrity.
B) Identifying critical data for backup is a separate step in the backup strategy.
D) Speeding up the backup process is not the primary purpose of regular integrity checks.
Question 43 Incorrect
You need to install a software update that addresses a critical security vulnerability. What should be 
prioritized in this scenario?
Notify users about the update but delay the installation to minimize disruption.
Correct answer
Install the update immediately without informing users to maintain security.
Skip the update since it may disrupt ongoing projects.
Your answer is incorrect
Schedule the update during a planned maintenance window.
Overall explanation
B) In the case of a critical security vulnerability, the priority is to install the update immediately to 
address the security risk.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 312    
Incorrect Answers:
A) Delaying the installation may expose the organization to potential security threats.
C) Skipping the update jeopardizes the organization's security.
D) While scheduling during a maintenance window is good, addressing critical security vulnerabilities 
should take precedence.
Question 44 Correct
What distinguishes a "concurrent" software license from other types?
It allows installation on a single device only.
It restricts usage to a specific group of users within an organization.
Your answer is correct
It permits a specific number of users to access the software simultaneously, regardless of the number 
of installations.
It requires individual licenses for each user.
Overall explanation
C) A concurrent software license permits a specific number of users to access the software 
simultaneously, regardless of the number of installations.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Allowing installation on a single device only is not characteristic of concurrent licenses.
B) Restricting usage to a specific group is more characteristic of group use/site licenses.
D) Requiring individual licenses for each user is not typical of concurrent licenses.
Question 45 Incorrect
What security measure can be implemented to control which devices are allowed to connect to a 
wireless network?
Correct answer
MAC address filtering.
Increasing the transmission power of the wireless router.
Your answer is incorrect
Disabling SSID broadcast.
Using an open authentication method.
Overall explanation
A) MAC address filtering allows control over which devices are allowed to connect to the wireless 
network by specifying approved device MAC addresses.
Incorrect Answers:
B) Increasing transmission power does not control which devices can connect but may impact the range 
of the network.
C) Disabling SSID broadcast hides the network name but does not provide granular control over device 
   Comptia ITF+ Page 313    
C) Disabling SSID broadcast hides the network name but does not provide granular control over device 
connections.
D) Open authentication methods do not restrict specific devices from connecting to the network.
Question 46 Incorrect
A user notices unauthorized devices connected to their home Wi -Fi network. What security measure can 
a technician recommend to address this issue?
Your answer is incorrect
Disable the Wi -Fi network
Correct answer
Change the Wi -Fi password
Increase the network speed
Install additional wireless routers
Overall explanation
B) Changing the Wi -Fi password helps ensure that only authorized devices can access the network. It is 
an effective measure to address unauthorized connections.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Disabling the network is an extreme measure and is not necessary to address unauthorized devices.
C) Network speed is unrelated to addressing unauthorized connections; changing the password is the 
appropriate action.
D) Installing more routers does not directly address the security concern; changing the password is a 
more targeted solution.
Question 47 Correct
What is the purpose of configuring different wireless channels for neighboring networks?
To increase network speed.
To enhance security.
Your answer is correct
To avoid interference and improve signal quality.
To provide more bandwidth for connected devices.
Overall explanation
C) Configuring different wireless channels for neighboring networks helps avoid interference and 
improves signal quality.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Configuring different channels may impact interference but does not directly increase network speed.
B) Enhancing security is typically addressed through encryption and access control measures.
D) Providing more bandwidth for connected devices is not achieved through configuring different 
channels.
Question 48 Incorrect
   Comptia ITF+ Page 314    
Question 48 Incorrect
What does the term "Password Hashing" refer to in the context of password security?
Your answer is incorrect
Encrypting passwords for secure storage.
Storing passwords in plain text.
Correct answer
Generating a fixed -length code from passwords using a one -way function.
Changing passwords at regular intervals.
Overall explanation
C) Password hashing involves generating a fixed -length code (hash) from passwords using a one -way 
function. This process adds a layer of security by making it difficult for attackers to reverse -engineer the 
original password.
Incorrect Answers:
A) While encryption is a related concept, password hashing specifically involves one -way functions.
B) Storing passwords in plain text is considered insecure due to the risk of unauthorized access.
D) Changing passwords at regular intervals is a practice separate from password hashing.
Question 49 Correct
A developer is tasked with creating an application that interacts with a relational database. Which of the 
following concepts is essential for retrieving specific data from the database?
API (Application Programming Interface)
Your answer is correct
SQL (Structured Query Language)
Object -oriented programming (OOP)
Compiler
Overall explanation
B) SQL is a domain -specific language used for managing and manipulating relational databases. It allows 
developers to query databases to retrieve specific data based on defined criteria.
Incorrect Answers:
A) APIs are interfaces for interacting with external systems but are not specific to database querying.
C) OOP is a programming paradigm and is not directly related to querying databases.
D) Compilers are used for translating source code and are not related to database interactions.
Question 50 Correct
What is the primary purpose of a device driver in an operating system?
Manage system processes
Your answer is correct
Facilitate communication between hardware and software
   Comptia ITF+ Page 315    
Optimize system memory usage
Control user access permissions
Overall explanation
B) Device drivers act as interfaces between hardware devices and the operating system, enabling 
communication and proper functionality.
Incorrect Answers:
A) This is typically the role of the operating system kernel, not device drivers.
C) Memory optimization is generally handled by the operating system itself, not device drivers.
D) User access permissions are managed by the operating system's security features, not device drivers.
Question 51 Correct
What is the role of the Task Manager utility in an operating system?
Monitor network traffic
Your answer is correct
Manage running processes and system performance
Control device drivers
Execute user applications
Overall explanation
B) The Task Manager utility allows users to view and manage running processes, monitor system 
performance, and end tasks if necessary.
Incorrect Answers:
A) While some Task Managers may display network information, their primary focus is on processes and 
system performance.
C) Device drivers are managed separately, often through the Device Manager.
D) Task Manager is not responsible for executing user applications; it monitors and manages existing 
processes.
Question 52 Incorrect
What does the term "n -tier" refer to in application architecture, and what advantage does it offer?
Your answer is incorrect
Refers to a network -based architecture; offers improved scalability
Refers to a nine -layered architecture; offers enhanced security
Refers to a non -traditional architecture; offers simplified deployment
Correct answer
Refers to a variable number of layers; offers scalability and flexibility
Overall explanation
D) n-tier architecture allows for a variable number of layers, providing scalability and flexibility by 
allowing the distribution of components across multiple tiers.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 316    
Incorrect Answers:
A) While n -tier architectures often involve networks, the term is not limited to a network -based 
architecture.
B) The term "n -tier" does not specifically refer to a nine -layered architecture, and its advantage is not 
focused solely on security.
C)  The term "n -tier" is a more general concept and is not specifically associated with a non -traditional 
architecture.
Question 53 Correct
Which application architecture model involves separating the user interface, business logic, and data 
storage into two distinct layers, typically a client and a server?
One -tier
Your answer is correct
Two -tier
Three -tier
n-tier
Overall explanation
B) n a two -tier architecture, the user interface and business logic are often combined on the client side, 
while data storage is managed on the server side.
Incorrect Answers:
A) One -tier: In a one -tier architecture, all components are tightly integrated on a single machine.
C) Three -tier: Three -tier architectures separate the user interface, business logic, and data storage into 
three distinct layers.
D) n-tier: n -tier architectures involve more than two layers, allowing for greater scalability and flexibility.
Question 54 Correct
What is the term for a certificate that is used to sign and verify the authenticity and integrity of 
software, documents, or messages?
Encryption certificate
Decryption certificate
Your answer is correct
Digital signature certificate
Authentication certificate
Overall explanation
C) A digital signature certificate is a certificate that is used to sign and verify the authenticity and 
integrity of software, documents, or messages.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 317    
integrity of software, documents, or messages.
Incorrect answers:
A) An encryption certificate is a certificate that is used to encrypt data between a web server and a 
browser, using a secret key that is shared by both parties.
B) A decryption certificate is a certificate that is used to decrypt data that is encrypted by an encryption 
certificate, using the same secret key that is shared by both parties.
D) An authentication certificate is a certificate that is used to authenticate the identity of a user, a 
device, or a service, using a piece of information that is known or possessed by the authenticator.
Question 55 Incorrect
What is the term for a certificate that has been revoked by the certificate authority (CA) before its 
expiration date due to compromise, misuse, or change of status?
Your answer is incorrect
Expired certificate
Invalid certificate
Correct answer
Revoked certificate
Suspended certificate
Overall explanation
C) A revoked certificate is a certificate that has been revoked by the certificate authority (CA) before its 
expiration date due to compromise, misuse, or change of status. A revoked certificate is no longer valid 
and cannot be used to establish a secure connection.
Incorrect answers:
A) An expired certificate is a certificate that has reached its expiration date and is no longer valid.
B)  An invalid certificate is a certificate that is not recognized or trusted by the browser or the operating 
system.
D) A suspended certificate is a certificate that has been temporarily deactivated by the CA for a certain 
period of time.
Question 56 Correct
What is the primary purpose of using a script blocker when browsing the web?
Blocking access to specific websites
Preventing the loading of images
Your answer is correct
   Comptia ITF+ Page 318    
Controlling the execution of JavaScript and other scripts
Managing browser bookmarks
Overall explanation
C) Script blockers provide users with the ability to control which JavaScript and other scripts are allowed 
to execute on webpages, enhancing privacy and security.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Blocking access to specific websites is typically managed through other means, such as browser 
settings.
B) Script blockers primarily focus on controlling the execution of scripts, not preventing image loading.
D) Managing bookmarks is not the primary function of script blockers.
Question 57 Correct
You want to restrict users from installing unauthorized browser extensions to enhance security. Which 
browser feature or setting should you enforce to achieve this restriction?
Incognito or private browsing mode
Browser plug -ins
Your answer is correct
Extension management or policy settings
JavaScript execution
Overall explanation
C) Enforcing extension management or policy settings allows administrators to control and restrict the 
installation of browser extensions.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Incognito or private browsing mode is not related to restricting the installation of browser extensions.
B) Browser plug -ins and extensions are often used interchangeably, and restricting plug -ins may not 
directly control extensions.
D) JavaScript execution is not directly related to managing and restricting browser extensions.
Question 58 Incorrect
What does the term "branching" refer to in software development?
Executing a set of instructions repeatedly
Correct answer
Diverting the flow of execution based on conditions
Your answer is incorrect
Organizing code into modular components
Defining constant values in the code
Overall explanation
B) Branching in software development refers to altering the flow of program execution based on certain 
conditions, often achieved using constructs like "if" statements.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 319    
conditions, often achieved using constructs like "if" statements.
Incorrect Answers:
A) This describes looping, not branching.
C) Modularization is generally achieved through functions or classes, not branching.
D) Constants are usually declared using specific syntax, not as part of branching.
Question 59 Correct
What is the purpose of the "if" statement in programming?
Implementing error handling
Iterating through a collection of elements
Your answer is correct
Making decisions based on conditions
Defining constant values in the code
Overall explanation
C) The "if" statement in programming is used to make decisions based on specified conditions, allowing 
the program to execute different blocks of code depending on whether the condition is true or false.
Incorrect Answers:
A) While "if" statements can be part of error -handling logic, their primary purpose is conditional 
decision -making.
B) Iteration is typically performed using loops, not "if" statements.
D) Constants are usually declared separately, and the "if" statement is not used for this purpose.
Question 60 Correct
Which of the following concepts is associated with the assurance that a user cannot deny their actions in 
a digital transaction?
Biometrics
Your answer is correct
Non -repudiation
Digital signatures
Public -key encryption
Overall explanation
B) Non -repudiation ensures that a user cannot deny the validity of their actions or transactions, 
providing evidence that the action took place.
Incorrect Answers:
A) While biometrics can enhance security, it is not directly related to the concept of non -repudiation.
C) Digital signatures contribute to non -repudiation, but the term itself directly addresses the denial of 
actions.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 320    
actions.
D) Public -key encryption is a cryptographic technique, but it does not inherently address non -
repudiation.
Question 61 Correct
You are responsible for the security of a server containing sensitive company data. What measures 
would you implement to secure data at rest on the server?
Encrypt individual files containing sensitive data.
Regularly update and patch the server operating system.
Your answer is correct
Implement disk -level encryption for the entire server.
Utilize firewalls to control network access to the server.
Overall explanation
C) Implementing disk -level encryption ensures comprehensive protection for all data on the server, 
including the operating system and user files.
Incorrect Answers:
A) While file -level encryption is a consideration, disk -level encryption is more holistic.
B) Updating and patching are essential for security but focus more on vulnerabilities than data 
encryption.
D) Firewalls control network access but do not directly address data at rest encryption.
Question 62 Correct
What is a key component of a software development contingency plan related to data backup and 
recovery?
Regularly updating project documentation
Your answer is correct
Creating redundant copies of code repositories
Increasing the frequency of software releases
Implementing version control systems
Overall explanation
B) Creating redundant copies of code repositories is a key component of a contingency plan to ensure 
data backup and facilitate recovery in case of data loss or system failures.
Incorrect Answers:
A) While documentation is important, it is not directly related to data backup and recovery.
C) The frequency of software releases is not directly tied to data backup and recovery efforts.
D) Version control systems help with code management but do not inherently create redundant copies 
for backup purposes.
Question 63 Correct
What is a potential disadvantage of relying solely on locally installed applications without network 
   Comptia ITF+ Page 321    
What is a potential disadvantage of relying solely on locally installed applications without network 
connectivity for file storage and access?
Increased risk of data breaches
Dependency on third -party servers for file storage
Your answer is correct
Limited access to files when using different devices
Enhanced collaboration capabilities with remote teams
Overall explanation
C) Relying solely on locally installed applications with local file storage may lead to limited access to files 
when using different devices, as the files are tied to the specific device.
Incorrect Answers:
A) The risk of data breaches is not inherently higher due to local file storage; it depends on other 
security measures.
B) Local file storage implies independence from third -party servers.
D) Local file storage may limit collaboration capabilities, but it is not a disadvantage related to 
collaboration with remote teams specifically.
Question 64 Correct
A developer has completed writing the source code for a software application and now needs to convert 
it into machine code or bytecode for execution. What tool or process is required for this conversion?
Debugger
Your answer is correct
Compiler
Integrated Development Environment (IDE)
Version Control System (VCS)
Overall explanation
B) The compilation process involves converting source code into machine code or bytecode for 
execution. A compiler is the tool responsible for performing this translation.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Debuggers find and fix errors but are not involved in the compilation process.
C) IDEs provide a development environment but are not directly responsible for code compilation.
D) VCS is used for version control and collaboration, not for compiling code into executable forms.
Question 65 Correct
An employee uses a smart card to authenticate their access to a secure building. The employee is 
concerned that someone might capture and reuse the authentication data to gain unauthorized entry. 
What type of attack is the employee worried about?
Brute -force attack
Your answer is correct
   Comptia ITF+ Page 322    
Replay attack
Cross -site scripting (XSS) attack
Trojan horse attack
Overall explanation
B) The employee is concerned about a replay attack, where an attacker captures and replays previously 
recorded authentication data to gain unauthorized access.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Brute -force attacks involve systematically trying all possible combinations to guess a password and 
are not specific to reusing authentication data.
C) XSS attacks involve injecting malicious scripts into web pages but are not related to capturing and 
replaying authentication data.
D) Trojan horse attacks involve tricking users into installing malicious software, not specifically capturing 
and replaying authentication data.
Question 66 Correct
What is the main function of URL -to-IP translation in web communication?
To convert Uniform Resource Locators (URLs) into human -readable text
Your answer is correct
To map domain names to their corresponding IP addresses
To encrypt website data during transmission
To optimize website loading speed
Overall explanation
B) URL -to-IP translation involves converting domain names (URLs) into their respective IP addresses, 
enabling communication between devices on the internet.
Incorrect Answers:
A) URL -to-IP translation is not concerned with converting URLs into human -readable text; it's about 
mapping to IP addresses.
C) While encryption is important for security, URL -to-IP translation is not directly related to encrypting 
website data.
D) Website optimization is not the primary function of URL -to-IP translation. Its main purpose is address 
resolution.
Question 67 Correct
What does a stateful firewall do that distinguishes it from a stateless firewall?
Filters traffic based on predefined rules without considering the state of the connection
Your answer is correct
Analyzes the state of active connections and makes decisions based on the context
Only allows outgoing traffic and blocks incoming traffic
Focuses on filtering wireless traffic exclusively
   Comptia ITF+ Page 323    
Overall explanation
B) A stateful firewall keeps track of the state of active connections and makes decisions based on the 
context of the traffic, enhancing security.
Incorrect Answers:
A) This describes a stateless firewall. A stateful firewall considers the state of connections.
C) This describes a default deny stance, which can be a feature of firewalls but is not specific to stateful 
firewalls.
D) Firewalls can filter both wired and wireless traffic. The distinction between stateful and stateless 
relates to their approach to connection tracking.
Question 68 Incorrect
Which operating system commonly uses the HFS (Hierarchical File System) for organizing and managing 
files?
Your answer is incorrect
Windows
Linux
Correct answer
macOS
Android
Overall explanation
C) HFS (Hierarchical File System) is commonly used by macOS for organizing and managing files on 
storage devices.
Incorrect Answers:
A)  Windows primarily uses file systems such as NTFS (New Technology File System) and FAT (File 
Allocation Table).
B) Linux typically uses file systems like Ext4, not HFS.
D) Android devices typically use file systems like FAT or Ext4, not HFS.
Question 69 Incorrect
Which file system is commonly used for organizing files on Linux -based systems, providing support for 
large file sizes and volumes?
FAT32
NTFS
Correct answer
Ext4
Your answer is incorrect
HFS+
Overall explanation
C) Ext4 is a widely used file system in Linux -based systems, known for its support of large file sizes and 
   Comptia ITF+ Page 324    
C) Ext4 is a widely used file system in Linux -based systems, known for its support of large file sizes and 
volumes.
Incorrect Answers:
A) FAT32 is a file system commonly used in Windows and may not be suitable for larger file sizes 
typically handled by Ext4.
B) NTFS is a file system used by Windows, not Linux.
D) HFS+ is a file system used by macOS, not Linux.
Question 70 Correct
What distinguishes a one -time password (OTP) from a traditional static password?
OTPs are shorter in length than static passwords
OTPs are used exclusively for wireless authentication
Your answer is correct
OTPs change with each login attempt and are valid for a single use
OTPs are more vulnerable to brute -force attacks
Overall explanation
C) A one -time password (OTP) is a dynamic code that changes with each login attempt, providing 
additional security as it is valid for only one use.
Incorrect Answers:
A) The length of an OTP can vary, and it is not a defining characteristic compared to static passwords.
B) OTPs can be used for various forms of authentication, not exclusively for wireless.
D) OTPs, especially when time -sensitive, are generally more secure against brute -force attacks 
compared to static passwords.
Question 71 Correct
What security feature does a software token commonly provide in multi -factor authentication (MFA)?
Your answer is correct
Generation of one -time passwords
Biometric identification
Physical token storage
Wireless network encryption
Overall explanation
A) A software token is a digital application that commonly provides the generation of one -time 
passwords (OTPs) for multi -factor authentication.
Incorrect Answers:
B) Biometric identification is a distinct factor and is not the primary feature of a software token.
C) Physical token storage typically refers to hardware tokens, not software tokens.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 325    
C) Physical token storage typically refers to hardware tokens, not software tokens.
D) Wireless network encryption is a security feature, but it is not the primary function of a software 
token.
Question 72 Correct
Which component of a computer system is responsible for temporarily storing data and instructions that 
the CPU currently needs?
Your answer is correct
RAM (Random Access Memory)
Hard Disk Drive (HDD)
Central Processing Unit (CPU)
Motherboard
Overall explanation
A) RAM is a type of memory that stores data and instructions currently in use by the CPU, providing fast 
access for temporary storage.
Incorrect Answers:
B) The HDD is a non -volatile storage device used for long -term data storage, not for temporarily storing 
data for immediate CPU use.
C) The CPU is responsible for processing instructions, not for storing them temporarily.
D) The motherboard is a central circuit board that connects various components, but it is not 
responsible for storing data temporarily.
Question 73 Correct
Which programming language category is known for being close to machine language and providing 
direct control over hardware resources?
Your answer is correct
Assembly language
High -level language
Scripting language
Markup language
Overall explanation
A) Assembly language is a low -level programming language that is close to machine language, providing 
a level of abstraction above machine code and offering direct control over hardware resources.
Incorrect Answers:
B)  High -level languages are more abstract and provide higher -level constructs, abstracting away low -
level hardware details.
C) Scripting languages are typically higher -level and are not known for providing direct control over 
hardware resources.
D) Markup languages, like HTML, are not programming languages and do not provide control over 
hardware resources.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 326    
hardware resources.
Question 74 Correct
A company wants to ensure that customer service representatives can only view customer details but 
are restricted from modifying or deleting records. What database access control mechanism should be 
implemented?
Your answer is correct
Least privilege principle
Time -based access control
Discretionary access control (DAC)
Two -factor authentication (2FA)
Overall explanation
A) To ensure that customer service representatives have the minimum necessary access, the least 
privilege principle should be implemented. This involves granting individuals the minimum levels of 
access needed to perform their duties, reducing the risk of unauthorized actions.
Incorrect Answers:
B) Time -based access control restricts access based on specific time intervals and is not directly related 
to limiting the level of privilege.
C) DAC allows users to control access to their own objects, which may not be the most effective method 
for limiting access in a structured manner.
D) 2FA enhances authentication security but does not directly control the level of access to specific 
database records.
Question 75 Incorrect
The IT department is concerned about the security of the device and wants to implement a measure to 
ensure data confidentiality in case the phone is lost or stolen. What security feature should be 
implemented on the mobile phone?
Biometric authentication
Correct answer
Remote wipe capability
GPS tracking
Your answer is incorrect
Two -factor authentication (2FA)
Overall explanation
B) To ensure data confidentiality in case of a lost or stolen mobile phone, implementing remote wipe 
capability is crucial. This feature allows the IT department to remotely erase sensitive data from the 
device, preventing unauthorized access.
Incorrect Answers:
A) While biometric authentication enhances security, it is not directly related to remotely wiping data in 
case of loss or theft.
C) GPS tracking helps locate a lost or stolen device but does not directly address data confidentiality.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 327    
C) GPS tracking helps locate a lost or stolen device but does not directly address data confidentiality.
D) 2FA enhances authentication security but does not provide a direct mechanism for remotely wiping 
data.
Back to result overviewScroll back to top
Retake test
Continue
Exam 3
Question 1 Correct
How do you convert a decimal number to a percentage?
Your answer is correct
Multiply by 100
Divide by 100
Add 100
Subtract 100
Overall explanation
A) To convert a decimal to a percentage, you multiply it by 100.
Incorrect Answers:
B) Dividing by 100 would convert a percentage to a decimal.
C) Adding 100 is not the correct method for converting a decimal to a percentage.
D) Subtracting 100 is not the correct method for converting a decimal to a percentage.
Question 2 Incorrect
Which of the following is a character encoding standard that supports a larger set of characters, 
including characters from various languages and symbols?
Your answer is incorrect
ASCII
Correct answer
Unicode
Binary
Hexadecimal
Overall explanation
B) Unicode is a character encoding standard that supports a larger set of characters, including 
characters from various languages and symbols.
Incorrect Answers:
A) ASCII is a character encoding standard, but it has a limited set of characters.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 328    
A) ASCII is a character encoding standard, but it has a limited set of characters.
C) Binary is not a character encoding standard; it is a numeral system.
D) Hexadecimal is not a character encoding standard; it is a numeral system.
Question 3 Correct
What is the purpose of conducting a trademark search before registering a new trademark?
To ensure the trademark is already registered
Your answer is correct
To identify potential conflicts with existing trademarks
To speed up the trademark registration process
To establish ownership of the trademark
Overall explanation
B) The purpose of conducting a trademark search is to identify potential conflicts with existing 
trademarks and avoid infringement issues.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Ensuring the trademark is already registered is part of the search process, but the main goal 
is to identify conflicts.
C) The trademark registration process is not necessarily expedited by conducting a search.
D) Establishing ownership occurs through the registration process, but the search helps avoid 
conflicts.
Question 4 Correct
What is a potential challenge associated with data correlation in business analytics?
Difficulty in identifying data sources
Increased data security risks
Your answer is correct
Misinterpreting correlation as causation
Slower data processing speed
Overall explanation
C) A potential challenge associated with data correlation in business analytics is the risk of 
misinterpreting correlation as causation, leading to incorrect conclusions.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Difficulty in identifying data sources is more related to data collection than correlation.
B) Increased data security risks are not a common challenge directly associated with data 
correlation.
D) Slower data processing speed is not a typical challenge associated with data correlation.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 329    
Question 5 Incorrect
How many Kilobytes (KB) are in a Megabyte (MB)?
Correct answer
1024 KB
Your answer is incorrect
10000 KB
500 KB
2048 KB
Overall explanation
A) There are 1024 Kilobytes (KB) in a Megabyte (MB) when using the metric system.
1 Megabyte (MB) can be equivalent to both 1000 Kilobytes (KB) or 1024 Kilobytes (KB), 
depending on the context and system of measurement.
1 MB = 1000 KB (in decimal)
1 MB = 1024 KB (in binary)
Incorrect Answers:
B) 10000 KB is not the correct conversion for a Megabyte.
C) 500 KB is not the correct conversion for a Megabyte.
D) 2048 KB is the equivalent of two Megabytes, not one.
Question 6 Correct
What is the primary purpose of authentication in a software system?
Authorizing access to resources
Recording user activities
Your answer is correct
Verifying the identity of users
Monitoring system performance
Overall explanation
C) Authentication is the process of confirming the identity of users, ensuring that they are who 
they claim to be before granting access to system resources.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Authorization is the process of determining what actions users are allowed to perform after 
authentication.
B) Accounting or auditing is responsible for recording user activities, not authentication.
D) Monitoring system performance is unrelated to the primary purpose of authentication.
Question 7 Incorrect
   Comptia ITF+ Page 330    
Question 7 Incorrect
What does the unit Tbps represent in terms of data throughput?
Correct answer
Terabits per second
Your answer is incorrect
Terabytes per second
Trillion bits per second
TeraHertz per second
Overall explanation
A) Tbps stands for Terabits per second, representing a measure of data transfer speed.
Incorrect Answers:
B) Terabytes per second is not represented by the unit Tbps.
C) Trillion bits per second is an informal representation of Tbps, but the standard is Terabits per 
second.
D) TeraHertz per second is unrelated to data throughput.
Question 8 Correct
Why is it important to verify full system functionality before deploying a software application?
To test individual functions in isolation
Your answer is correct
To ensure that the software meets all specified requirements
To identify and fix bugs during the deployment phase
To create a backup of the software code
Overall explanation
B) Verifying full system functionality before deployment is crucial to confirm that the entire 
software system operates as intended and satisfies the defined requirements. This step helps 
ensure that the software aligns with user expectations and is ready for production use.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Testing individual functions in isolation may be part of the testing process but does not 
address the need to verify the full system's functionality (incorrect).
C) Identifying and fixing bugs during the deployment phase is not the ideal approach; the goal is 
to catch and fix issues before deployment through thorough testing (incorrect).
D) Creating a backup of the software code is important for data protection but does not directly 
address the need to verify system functionality (incorrect).
Question 9 Correct
You are a system administrator, and a server in your organization experiences unexpected 
   Comptia ITF+ Page 331    
You are a system administrator, and a server in your organization experiences unexpected 
downtime. What is the appropriate initial action in troubleshooting this situation?
Notify all users about the server downtime
Implement a fix for the server issue
Your answer is correct
Research logs and error messages to identify the cause
Document the server downtime for future reference
Overall explanation
C) The appropriate initial action in troubleshooting unexpected server downtime is to research 
logs and error messages to identify the cause. This helps in understanding the root cause before 
taking corrective actions.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Notifying users about downtime is important but should come after understanding the cause 
(incorrect).
B) Implementing a fix without understanding the root cause may lead to temporary solutions or 
unintended consequences (incorrect).
D) Documenting the downtime comes later in the troubleshooting process (incorrect).
Question 10 Correct
you have successfully resolved an issue that affected multiple users in your organization. What 
is the most appropriate action to take after implementing the solution?
Immediately close the ticket without further documentation
Your answer is correct
Document the solution and outcomes for future reference
Inform users that the issue is resolved without providing details
Escalate the issue to higher -level support for additional review
Overall explanation
B) After implementing the solution, the most appropriate action is to document the solution 
and outcomes for future reference. This documentation helps build a knowledge base and 
assists in addressing similar issues in the future.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Immediately closing the ticket without documentation may result in a lack of information for 
future reference (incorrect).
C) Informing users that the issue is resolved without providing details doesn't contribute to 
knowledge sharing and improvement (incorrect).
D) Escalating the issue to higher -level support after resolution is unnecessary (incorrect).
Question 11 Correct
   Comptia ITF+ Page 332    
Question 11 Correct
What wireless technology is often used for contactless data exchange between devices in close 
proximity, such as for mobile payments?
Bluetooth
Your answer is correct
NFC
Wi-Fi
LTE
Overall explanation
B) NFC (Near Field Communication) is often used for contactless data exchange between 
devices in close proximity, such as for mobile payments.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Bluetooth is used for short -range wireless communication but is not primarily associated 
with contactless payments.
C) Wi -Fi is typically used for longer -range wireless networking, not close -proximity contactless 
data exchange.
D) LTE is a cellular network standard and is not used for contactless data exchange between 
devices.
Question 12 Incorrect
In Ethernet connections, which of the following categories refers to the type of twisted pair 
cables commonly used with RJ -45 connectors for high -speed data transmission?
Correct answer
Category 5e (Cat5e)
Category 3 (Cat3)
Your answer is incorrect
Category 6 (Cat6)
Category 1 (Cat1)
Overall explanation
A) Category 5e (Cat5e) is a type of twisted pair cable commonly used with RJ -45 connectors in 
Ethernet connections for high -speed data transmission.
Incorrect Answers:
b) Category 3 (Cat3) is an older standard with lower data transmission capabilities compared to 
Cat5e.
c) Category 6 (Cat6) is a higher -performance cable, but Cat5e is more common for general use 
in Ethernet connections.
d) Category 1 (Cat1) is not typically used for high -speed data transmission and is not common in 
   Comptia ITF+ Page 333    
d) Category 1 (Cat1) is not typically used for high -speed data transmission and is not common in 
Ethernet connections.
Question 13 Correct
In a cellular network, what technology is primarily responsible for providing high -speed data 
transfer to mobile devices?
GSM (Global System for Mobile Communications)
Your answer is correct
LTE (Long -Term Evolution)
CDMA (Code Division Multiple Access)
3G (Third Generation)
Overall explanation
B) LTE (Long -Term Evolution) is the cellular technology primarily responsible for providing high -
speed data transfer to mobile devices.
Incorrect Answers:
A) GSM is a mobile communication standard but does not provide high -speed data transfer like 
LTE.
C) CDMA is another mobile communication standard but is not primarily associated with high -
speed data transfer.
D) 3G, while providing data transfer, does not match the high speeds offered by LTE.
Question 14 Incorrect
What is the purpose of a Proxy firewall in a network security infrastructure?
Encrypting data transmissions
Your answer is incorrect
Blocking unauthorized access
Correct answer
Inspecting and filtering application -layer traffic
Managing IP addresses
Overall explanation
C) The purpose of a Proxy firewall is to inspect and filter application -layer traffic, acting as an 
intermediary between internal and external systems.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Encrypting data transmissions is not a primary function of a Proxy firewall, though it may 
encrypt traffic between the proxy and external servers.
B) Blocking unauthorized access is a general firewall function, but it doesn't specifically define 
the role of a Proxy firewall.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 334    
D) Managing IP addresses is typically associated with other network devices, such as routers 
and DHCP servers, rather than Proxy firewalls.
Question 15 Correct
In a shared network drive, why might an administrator assign "read -only" access to certain 
folders?
To restrict all users from accessing the folders
Your answer is correct
To allow users to view and copy files but prevent them from making changes
To provide full control and modification capabilities to all users
To delete files within the folders
Overall explanation
B) Assigning "read -only" access to certain folders allows users to view and copy files but 
prevents them from making changes.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Assigning "read -only" access does not restrict all users from accessing folders; it limits 
modification capabilities.
C) "Read -only" access restricts modification capabilities, so it does not provide full control and 
modification capabilities to all users.
D) "Read -only" status does not grant permissions to delete files within folders; it focuses on 
viewing and copying.
Question 16 Correct
What is the purpose of applying software patches to your computer?
To optimize computer processing speed.
To manage network traffic efficiently.
Your answer is correct
To fix software bugs and address security vulnerabilities.
To improve internet speed.
Overall explanation
C) Applying software patches is done to fix software bugs and address security vulnerabilities, 
enhancing the overall security and stability of the software.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Software patches are primarily focused on fixing bugs and addressing vulnerabilities, not on 
optimizing processing speed.
B) Software patches are not primarily related to managing network traffic; this is a false 
statement.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 335    
statement.
D) Applying software patches does not directly improve internet speed; this is a false 
statement.
Question 17 Incorrect
What is the primary purpose of a router in a computer network?
Your answer is incorrect
To connect devices within the same local network
Correct answer
To connect different networks and direct data between them
To amplify the strength of Wi -Fi signals
To filter and block malicious websites
Overall explanation
B) A router is a networking device that connects different networks and directs data between 
them. It serves as a gateway, managing the flow of data between devices on different 
networks.
Incorrect Answers:
a) This is the function of a switch, not a router.
c) This is the function of a Wi -Fi extender or booster, not a router.
d) While routers can have security features, the primary purpose is to route data between 
networks.
Question 18 Correct
Which of the following is an example of a biometric authentication method?
Password
PIN
Your answer is correct
Fingerprint scanner
Security token
Overall explanation
C) Biometric authentication methods use unique physical or behavioral characteristics for 
authentication. A fingerprint scanner, which scans and verifies fingerprints, is an example of a 
biometric method. Passwords, PINs, and security tokens are traditional authentication methods 
that do not rely on biological characteristics.
Incorrect Answers:
A) A password is not a biometric method. It is a knowledge -based authentication requiring the 
user to enter a secret phrase.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 336    
B) A PIN is a form of knowledge -based authentication and not a biometric method.
D) A security token is a physical device used for multi -factor authentication but is not a 
biometric method. It typically generates temporary codes.
Question 19 Correct
Which of the following is an example of multi -factor authentication (MFA)?
Using a username and password
Your answer is correct
Scanning a fingerprint and entering a PIN
Remembering a secret passphrase
Accessing a system from a known location
Overall explanation
B) Multi -factor authentication (MFA) involves using two or more authentication factors. In this 
example, the fingerprint scan and PIN are two separate factors.
Incorrect Answers:
A) This is an example of single -factor authentication.
C) This is also an example of single -factor authentication.
D) This is a form of location -based authentication, not multi -factor authentication.
Question 20 Correct
What does the term "password complexity" refer to in the context of secure password 
practices?
The length of the password
Your answer is correct
The variety of characters used in the password
The expiration period of the password
The history of previously used passwords
Overall explanation
B) Password complexity involves using a mix of character types, such as uppercase and 
lowercase letters, numbers, and special characters, to enhance security.
Incorrect Answers:
A) The length of the password -Password length is a separate consideration from complexity.
C) The expiration period of the password -Expiration period is related to password expiration, 
not complexity.
D) The history of previously used passwords -Password history is a different aspect of secure 
password practices.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 337    
Question 21 Correct
What is the purpose of enforcing password history in a system?
Ensuring passwords are not too complex
Your answer is correct
Preventing users from reusing old passwords
Specifying the expiration period for passwords
Checking the strength of new passwords
Overall explanation
B) Enforcing password history prevents users from reusing previously used passwords, which 
enhances security by reducing the risk of compromised credentials.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Password complexity is a different concept from password history.
C) Password expiration is a separate consideration from password history.
D) Password strength is typically assessed independently during the creation or update of 
passwords.
Question 22 Incorrect
What is a potential advantage of using on -site storage for sensitive data in a business 
environment?
Lower upfront costs
Improved data redundancy
Your answer is incorrect
Reduced physical security risks
Correct answer
Greater control over data access
Overall explanation
D) Using on -site storage for sensitive data in a business environment provides greater control 
over data access and security, as the data remains within the organization's physical premises.
Incorrect Answers:
A) On -site storage may have higher upfront costs due to the need for hardware infrastructure, 
while cloud storage often operates on a pay -as-you-go model.
B) Improved data redundancy is often associated with distributed systems and cloud storage, 
where data is replicated across multiple servers.
C) On -site storage introduces physical security risks, such as the risk of theft or damage to the 
storage infrastructure, and may not necessarily reduce physical security risks.
Question 23 Correct
   Comptia ITF+ Page 338    
Question 23 Correct
When setting up a wireless mouse for a laptop or PC, what technology is commonly used to 
establish the wireless connection?
Infrared (IR)
Your answer is correct
Bluetooth
Wi-Fi
USB
Overall explanation
B) When setting up a wireless mouse for a laptop or PC, Bluetooth is a common technology 
used to establish the wireless connection.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Infrared is less common for wireless mice compared to Bluetooth.
C) Wi -Fi is typically not used for connecting wireless mice due to its higher power consumption.
D) USB is used for wired connections, while wireless mice commonly use Bluetooth or other 
wireless technologies.
Question 24 Correct
What is a common strategy to mitigate the impact of a denial -of-service (DoS) attack on a web 
service?
Installing antivirus software
Your answer is correct
Using redundant servers
Regular data backups
Enforcing complex password policies
Overall explanation
B) Redundant servers can help mitigate the impact of a denial -of-service (DoS) attack by 
distributing the load across multiple servers and ensuring service availability.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Antivirus software is designed to detect and prevent malware, but it is not the primary 
solution for mitigating the impact of a DoS attack.
C) Regular data backups are crucial for data recovery but are not directly related to mitigating 
the impact of a DoS attack on service availability.
D) Complex password policies are important for security, but they do not directly address the 
availability concerns associated with a DoS attack.
Question 25 Correct
   Comptia ITF+ Page 339    
You receive an unexpected email attachment from an unknown sender. What action should you 
take to ensure security?
Open the attachment to see what it contains.
Forward the email to colleagues for advice.
Your answer is correct
Delete the email without opening the attachment.
Reply to the email, asking for more information.
Overall explanation
C) Deleting the email without opening the attachment helps avoid potential malware or 
phishing attempts.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Opening attachments from unknown senders can expose your system to potential security 
threats; caution is essential.
B) Forwarding the email may expose others to potential security risks; deleting is a safer option.
D) Engaging with potentially malicious emails may expose your email address as active; deleting 
is a more secure option.
Question 26 Incorrect
What is the primary purpose of RAID in a storage system?
To increase the speed of data access
Your answer is incorrect
To provide a backup solution for data
Correct answer
To improve fault tolerance and data redundancy
To compress and reduce storage space
Overall explanation
C) RAID is primarily implemented to improve fault tolerance and data redundancy by 
distributing data across multiple disks.
Incorrect Answers:
A) While some RAID configurations may improve access speed, it's not the primary purpose of 
RAID.
B) RAID is not designed as a backup solution; it focuses on redundancy and fault tolerance.
D) RAID does not compress data but focuses on distributing and protecting it across multiple 
disks.
Question 27 Correct
What is the primary purpose of a guest user account on a computer system?
   Comptia ITF+ Page 340    
What is the primary purpose of a guest user account on a computer system?
To provide full administrative privileges.
Your answer is correct
To allow temporary access to visitors without compromising security.
To restrict access to specific applications only.
To serve as a backup account for the primary user.
Overall explanation
B) Guest user accounts are created to provide temporary access to visitors while limiting their 
permissions to ensure the security of the system.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Guest accounts typically have limited privileges to prevent misuse; providing full 
administrative privileges is not their purpose.
C) While some restrictions may apply, the primary purpose is to offer temporary access rather 
than limiting specific applications.
D) Guest accounts are not designed to serve as backups; they are created for short -term, 
restricted access.
Question 28 Correct
Which of the following is a characteristic of role -based access control (RBAC)?
Access decisions are based on specific user attributes.
Access permissions are individually assigned to each user.
Your answer is correct
Users are assigned roles, and access is based on those roles.
Access control is entirely manual without predefined roles.
Overall explanation
C) In role -based access control (RBAC), users are assigned specific roles, and access decisions 
are based on the permissions associated with those roles.
Incorrect Answers:
A) This describes attribute -based access control (ABAC) rather than role -based access control.
B) B) While it's possible, RBAC typically involves assigning permissions to roles, not individual 
users.
D) D) RBAC involves predefined roles, and access decisions are based on those roles, making it 
less manual than individually assigning permissions.
Question 29 Correct
What is the purpose of an administrator account on a computer system?
To provide regular, non -administrative access to the system.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 341    
To provide regular, non -administrative access to the system.
To serve as a backup account for the primary user.
Your answer is correct
To perform system -level tasks and configurations.
To restrict access to specific applications only.
Overall explanation
C) Administrator accounts are designed to perform system -level tasks, configurations, and have 
elevated privileges to manage the overall functioning of the system.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Administrator accounts are specifically designed for administrative access, not regular user 
access.
B) B) Administrator accounts are not typically created as backups; they are intended for system 
administration.
D) D) Administrator accounts have elevated privileges and are not designed to restrict access; 
rather, they have broader control.
Question 30 Correct
In a role -based access control system, what is the significance of a role?
It represents the physical location of a user.
It defines a user's personal preferences and settings.
It specifies the level of access assigned to a user.
Your answer is correct
It groups together a set of permissions for a specific job function.
Overall explanation
D)  In role -based access control (RBAC), a role groups together a set of permissions relevant to a 
specific job function or responsibility.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Roles are not typically associated with physical locations; location -based access control is a 
separate concept.
B) Personal preferences and settings are not typically associated with roles; roles are more 
focused on job functions.
C) While roles are associated with access, they are more specific, grouping permissions based 
on job functions rather than specifying a general level of access.
Question 31 Incorrect
What protocol is commonly used to secure the login process and protect user credentials 
during transmission?
HTTP
   Comptia ITF+ Page 342    
HTTP
POP3
Your answer is incorrect
IMAP
Correct answer
HTTPS
Overall explanation
D) HTTPS is commonly used to secure the login process of web applications, encrypting the data 
exchanged between the user's browser and the application server, providing a secure login 
environment.
Incorrect Answers:
A) HTTP does not provide the same level of security as HTTPS and is not recommended for 
securing login processes.
B) B) POP3 is used for retrieving emails, not for securing web login processes.
C) C) IMAP is used for accessing emails on a mail server, not for securing web login processes.
Question 32 Correct
Which of the following wireless security protocols is considered the least secure and is 
susceptible to various attacks, including packet sniffing and key cracking?
Your answer is correct
WEP
WPA
WPA2
AES
Overall explanation
A) WEP (Wired Equivalent Privacy) is the least secure among the options and is vulnerable to 
attacks due to its weak encryption algorithms and easily crackable keys.
Incorrect Answers:
B) WPA (Wi -Fi Protected Access) is more secure than WEP but has been succeeded by WPA2 for 
stronger security.
C) WPA2 is a more secure protocol compared to WEP and WPA, using advanced encryption 
methods.
D) AES (Advanced Encryption Standard) is a cryptographic algorithm used within WPA2 for 
secure data encryption.
Question 33 Correct
You notice a colleague leaving their computer unlocked and unattended frequently. What 
should you do to address this security concern?
   Comptia ITF+ Page 343    
should you do to address this security concern?
Ignore the situation, as it doesn't directly impact you.
Lock the colleague's computer on their behalf.
Your answer is correct
Report the concern to the IT department or supervisor.
Send an anonymous email reminding colleagues to lock their computers.
Overall explanation
C) Reporting the concern to the IT department or supervisor ensures appropriate action is 
taken to address the security risk.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Ignoring the situation may lead to potential security breaches, and it's important to address 
security concerns proactively.
B) Taking actions on a colleague's computer without their consent may not be well -received 
and can create misunderstandings.
D) An anonymous email may not effectively address the specific concern and could be 
perceived as less credible. Reporting to the IT department or supervisor is a more direct 
approach.
Question 34 Correct
What does clearing the browser cache accomplish?
Enhances network security
Speeds up internet connection
Your answer is correct
Removes stored website data for privacy and performance reasons
Deletes system files to free up storage space
Overall explanation
C) Clearing the browser cache deletes locally stored copies of web pages, images, and other 
content, improving privacy and performance.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Clearing the cache improves privacy and performance but does not directly enhance network 
security.
B) Clearing the cache can speed up browsing, but it doesn't directly impact the internet 
connection speed.
D) Clearing the cache removes temporary website data, not system files, and it does not 
typically free up significant storage space.
Question 35 Correct
What is a common tactic used in social engineering attacks to compromise confidentiality?
   Comptia ITF+ Page 344    
What is a common tactic used in social engineering attacks to compromise confidentiality?
Intercepting network traffic
Your answer is correct
Manipulating individuals to disclose sensitive information
Disrupting physical access control systems
Overloading servers with malicious traffic
Overall explanation
B) Social engineering involves manipulating individuals to divulge confidential information, 
often through deception or psychological manipulation.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Intercepting network traffic is more associated with technical attacks than social 
engineering.
C) Disrupting physical access control is a different type of attack, not typical of social 
engineering.
D) Overloading servers is a tactic used in denial -of-service attacks, not typically associated with 
social engineering.
Question 36 Correct
Which term describes the ability of a system to continue operating without interruption when 
one or more components fail?
System redundancy
System recovery
Your answer is correct
System availability
System scalability
Overall explanation
C) System availability refers to the ability of a system to continue operating without 
interruption, even when components fail.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Redundancy is a strategy used to achieve system availability, but it's not the same as 
availability itself.
B) System recovery is the process of returning a system to normal operation after a failure, not 
the continuous operation during a failure.
D) Scalability relates to a system's ability to handle increased workload or demand, not 
necessarily its ability to continue operating during failures.
Question 37 Correct
When selecting business software for a company, what should be a crucial consideration?
   Comptia ITF+ Page 345    
When selecting business software for a company, what should be a crucial consideration?
Software popularity among industry competitors
The latest software trends in the market
Your answer is correct
Alignment with business goals and requirements
Compatibility with personal devices used by employees
Overall explanation
C) When selecting business software, a crucial consideration is its alignment with the specific 
goals and requirements of the company.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Popularity may not guarantee suitability for the unique needs of a specific business.
B) Trends may not always align with the practical needs of a particular business.
D) Compatibility is important, but it's not the primary consideration; alignment with business 
goals takes precedence.
Question 38 Correct
What is the primary advantage of using fiber optic cables for transmitting data over traditional 
copper cables?
Lower cost
Your answer is correct
Greater bandwidth
Easier installation
Higher electrical resistance
Overall explanation
B) The primary advantage of using fiber optic cables is their ability to provide greater 
bandwidth, allowing for higher data transmission speeds compared to traditional copper cables.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Fiber optic cables can be more expensive to install initially, but they offer advantages like 
greater bandwidth.
C) While fiber optic cables can be delicate, their installation complexity is not necessarily easier 
than that of copper cables.
D) Fiber optic cables have low electrical resistance compared to copper cables, which can be an 
advantage, but it is not the primary reason for using them.
Question 39 Incorrect
When connecting a projector to a laptop for a presentation, what is a common cable interface 
used for video transmission?
   Comptia ITF+ Page 346    
Thunderbolt
DVI
Your answer is incorrect
DisplayPort
Correct answer
VGA
Overall explanation
D) When connecting a projector to a laptop for a presentation, a common cable interface used 
for video transmission is VGA (Video Graphics Array).
Incorrect Answers:
A) Thunderbolt is a high -speed interface, but VGA is more common for projectors, especially in 
older setups.
B) DVI is a digital interface but is less common for projectors, especially in business and 
educational settings.
C) DisplayPort is a modern digital interface, but VGA remains a common choice for projectors in 
many scenarios.
Question 40 Incorrect
A user reports that their printer is not printing any documents. What troubleshooting step 
should be taken FIRST?
Correct answer
Check the printer's paper tray for jams
Your answer is incorrect
Update the printer drivers
Reboot the computer
Replace the printer's ink cartridge
Overall explanation
A) When a printer is not printing, a common issue is paper jams. Checking the paper tray for 
jams is a crucial troubleshooting step.
Incorrect Answers:
B) While driver issues can cause problems, checking for paper jams is a more immediate and 
common step for printing issues.
C) Rebooting the computer may be a general troubleshooting step but is not the first action for 
a printer not printing.
D) Ink cartridge issues may cause print quality problems, but checking for paper jams is the 
initial step for a printer not printing at all.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 347    
initial step for a printer not printing at all.
Question 41 Correct
A technician has checked network cables and connections, but the computer still cannot 
connect to the internet. What should be the next troubleshooting step?
Reinstall the network adapter drivers
Your answer is correct
Test connectivity on another device
Replace the network switch
Reboot the computer
Overall explanation
B) If checking network cables and connections does not resolve the issue, the next step is to 
test connectivity on another device to determine whether the problem is specific to the 
computer or a broader network issue.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Reinstalling drivers is a more specific step that comes after verifying if the issue persists on 
another device.
C) Replacing network hardware is a drastic step and should come after verifying the issue on 
another device.
D) Rebooting may be a general troubleshooting step but is not the next action if the problem 
persists after checking cables and connections.
Question 42 Correct
Which markup language is commonly used for structuring content on the web and defines the 
structure of web documents?
XML (eXtensible Markup Language)
JSON (JavaScript Object Notation)
Your answer is correct
HTML (Hypertext Markup Language)
CSS (Cascading Style Sheets)
Overall explanation
C) HTML is the markup language commonly used for structuring content on the web and 
defining the structure of web documents.
Incorrect Answers:
A) XML is a markup language, but it is more generic and is not specific to web document 
structure.
B) JSON is a data interchange format and is not primarily used for structuring web documents.
D) CSS is used for styling and presentation of web documents, not for defining their structure.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 348    
D) CSS is used for styling and presentation of web documents, not for defining their structure.
Question 43 Incorrect
What is a primary advantage of a two -tier architecture compared to a one -tier architecture?
Your answer is incorrect
Improved scalability
Correct answer
Simplified development and maintenance
Enhanced security
Reduced client -side processing
Overall explanation
B) A two -tier architecture often provides simplified development and maintenance as the 
presentation layer and business logic are on the client side.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Scalability improvements are often associated with distributed architectures, not specifically 
with two -tier architectures.
C) Security considerations can vary, and the advantage of enhanced security is not inherent to 
two-tier architectures.
D) Two -tier architectures may involve more client -side processing compared to some other 
architectures, so this is not a primary advantage.
Question 44 Correct
What role does a foreign key play in a relational database?
It uniquely identifies each record in a table.
Your answer is correct
It establishes a link between two tables based on common columns.
It defines the primary sorting order of a table.
It ensures data integrity by enforcing unique constraints.
Overall explanation
B) A foreign key in a relational database establishes a link between two tables based on 
common columns, creating relationships between them.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Uniquely identifying records is the role of a primary key, not a foreign key.
C) The primary sorting order is not defined by a foreign key.
D) Enforcing unique constraints is the role of a primary key, not a foreign key.
Question 45 Correct
   Comptia ITF+ Page 349    
Which protocol is commonly used for diagnostic and error reporting in IP networks?
FTP (File Transfer Protocol)
TCP (Transmission Control Protocol)
UDP (User Datagram Protocol)
Your answer is correct
ICMP (Internet Control Message Protocol)
Overall explanation
D) ICMP is commonly used for diagnostic and error reporting purposes in IP networks, including 
tools like Ping and Traceroute.
Incorrect Answers:
A) FTP is used for file transfer, not diagnostic purposes.
B) TCP is a reliable, connection -oriented protocol, not primarily used for diagnostics.
C) UDP is a connectionless, low -overhead protocol, not primarily used for diagnostics.
Question 46 Correct
Which type of software is designed to detect, remove, and prevent malicious software on a 
computer?
Operating System
Firewall
Your answer is correct
Antivirus
Web Browser
Overall explanation
C) Antivirus software is specifically designed to detect, remove, and prevent the spread of 
malicious software (malware) on a computer. It helps protect the system from viruses, worms, 
and other types of harmful software.
Incorrect Answer:
A)  The operating system manages hardware and provides a platform for applications but is not 
specialized in detecting and removing malware.
B) Firewalls are focused on controlling network traffic and do not specialize in detecting and 
removing malware.
D)Web browsers are software for accessing information on the World Wide Web. While they 
may have some security features, they are not primarily designed for malware detection and 
removal.
Question 47 Incorrect
You are assisting a user who is experiencing frequent pop -up messages on his computer, asking 
   Comptia ITF+ Page 350    
You are assisting a user who is experiencing frequent pop -up messages on his computer, asking 
for payment to remove a virus. What type of security threat is the user likely facing?
Phishing
Correct answer
Ransomware
Your answer is incorrect
Adware
Spyware
Overall explanation
B) Ransomware is a type of malware that encrypts files on a system and demands payment for 
their release. In this scenario, the request for payment to remove a virus indicates a 
ransomware attack.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Phishing involves deceptive tactics to trick users, but it doesn't usually demand payment for 
removing a virus.
C) Adware displays unwanted advertisements but typically does not demand payment for virus 
removal.
D) Spyware is focused on gathering information without necessarily encrypting files or 
demanding payment.
Question 48 Correct
You receive a request from a user who needs to securely connect to the company's internal 
network while working remotely. Which technology or protocol would you recommend for 
establishing a secure remote connection?
Telnet
RDP (Remote Desktop Protocol)
Your answer is correct
VPN (Virtual Private Network)
SSH (Secure Shell)
Overall explanation
C) VPN (Virtual Private Network) technology allows users to securely connect to the company's 
internal network over the internet, providing a secure and encrypted connection.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Telnet transmits data in plaintext and is not suitable for secure remote connections.
B) While RDP allows remote access, it may not provide the same level of security as a VPN.
D) SSH is primarily used for secure command -line access to remote systems and may not 
provide the same network -level security as a VPN.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 351    
provide the same network -level security as a VPN.
Question 49 Correct
What is the PRIMARY difference between wired and wireless connections?
Your answer is correct
Wired connections are faster than wireless connections
Wireless connections have lower latency than wired connections
Wired connections are more susceptible to interference
Wireless connections are more energy -efficient than wired connections.
Overall explanation
A) In the context of networking, a key difference is that wired connections are generally faster 
than wireless connections.
Incorrect Answers:
B) In general, wired connections tend to have lower latency because they offer a more direct 
and stable connection compared to wireless connections, which can be affected by signal 
interference and environmental factors.
C) Wired connections are generally less susceptible to interference compared to wireless 
connections. Interference can disrupt wireless signals but has less impact on physical cables 
used in wired connections.
D) Wireless connections typically require more energy than wired connections, especially for 
devices like Wi -Fi routers and wireless adapters. Wired connections, on the other hand, do not 
rely on battery power for data transmission.
Question 50 Correct
A user is complaining about slow performance on their computer, especially when running 
multiple applications simultaneously. What hardware upgrade would you recommend to 
improve overall system performance?
Upgrade the CPU (Central Processing Unit)
Your answer is correct
Add more RAM (Random Access Memory)
Install a larger hard drive
Replace the graphics card
Overall explanation
B) Adding more RAM allows the computer to handle multiple applications simultaneously more 
efficiently, leading to improved overall system performance.
Incorrect Answers:
A) While upgrading the CPU can enhance performance, adding more RAM is often a more direct 
solution for multitasking.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 352    
solution for multitasking.
C) A larger hard drive primarily affects storage capacity, not necessarily overall system 
performance.
D) Unless the user is engaging in graphics -intensive tasks, upgrading the graphics card might not 
have a significant impact on general system performance.
Question 51 Incorrect
When choosing a licensing model for a large organization with varying software usage patterns, 
which type of license might be most cost -effective and flexible?
Single Use License
Your answer is incorrect
Group Use/Site License
Correct answer
Concurrent License
Open Source License
Overall explanation
C) A concurrent license is often the most cost -effective and flexible for large organizations with 
varying software usage patterns. It allows organizations to manage costs based on the number 
of simultaneous users rather than the total number of installations.
Incorrect Answers:
A) This is incorrect because a single -use license may become costly in a large organization with 
multiple users.
B) This is incorrect as a group use/site license may not offer the flexibility needed for varying 
usage patterns.
D) This is incorrect, as open -source licenses refer to a different licensing model that involves 
access to the source code, not necessarily addressing cost -effectiveness in terms of user access.
Question 52 Correct
Several employees in a remote office are unable to access shared files on the company server. 
What networking steps would you take to troubleshoot and resolve this issue?
Upgrade the company's internet service plan.
Your answer is correct
Check the remote office's VPN connection to the main office.
Replace the company's router.
Reconfigure the DNS settings on affected computers.
Overall explanation
B) In a remote office scenario, issues with accessing shared files may be related to the VPN 
connection. Checking and troubleshooting the VPN connection is a relevant step.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 353    
Incorrect Answers:
A) Upgrading the internet service plan may improve overall network speed but is not directly 
related to resolving issues with accessing shared files over a VPN.
C) Replacing the company's router is a drastic step and may not be necessary without further 
diagnosis of the specific issue.
D) Reconfiguring DNS settings on affected computers is unlikely to be the primary cause of 
issues with accessing shared files and might not directly address the problem.
Question 53 Incorrect
You're alerted about a lost smartphone with work -related data. What's your immediate action?
Your answer is incorrect
Take immediate steps to secure the device and data.
Correct answer
Activate GPS tracking and remotely wipe data.
Wait for the device to be found.
Suggest changing other account passwords.
Overall explanation
B) When a smartphone with work -related data is lost, activating GPS tracking helps locate the 
device, and remotely wiping data is a proactive measure to secure sensitive information.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Taking immediate steps to secure the device and data is a general statement and does not 
specify a concrete action like activating GPS tracking and remote wiping.
C) Waiting for the device to be found is not a recommended immediate action when dealing 
with a lost device containing sensitive work -related data.
D) Suggesting changing other account passwords, while a good practice, may not address the 
immediate concern of securing the lost device and its data.
Question 54 Incorrect
When researching software sources, what steps can you take to identify potential security risks 
associated with third -party download sites?
Scrutinize user testimonials on the third -party site.
Correct answer
Check for secure HTTPS connections on the website.
Verify the authenticity of software from official sources.
Your answer is incorrect
Investigate potential security concerns and assess their validity.
Overall explanation
B) Identifying potential security risks involves checking for secure HTTPS connections on the 
   Comptia ITF+ Page 354    
B) Identifying potential security risks involves checking for secure HTTPS connections on the 
website, ensuring that data transmission is encrypted and secure.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Scrutinizing user testimonials is a more cautious approach than blindly trusting them, but it 
may not be sufficient to identify potential security risks.
C) Verifying the authenticity of software from official sources is a valid step, but it doesn't 
specifically address potential security risks associated with third -party sites.
D) Investigating potential security concerns and assessing their validity is a more proactive and 
informed approach than ignoring concerns outright.
Question 55 Correct
As part of routine system maintenance, why is it important to regularly remove unnecessary 
software from a computer?
Regularly removing unnecessary software is not essential for system performance.
Your answer is correct
Unnecessary software can introduce security vulnerabilities and consume system resources.
Unnecessary software automatically updates for improved functionality.
Unnecessary software is crucial for enhancing the aesthetics of the computer interface.
Overall explanation
B) Regularly removing unnecessary software is important because keeping such software can 
introduce security vulnerabilities and consume valuable system resources. Option B provides 
the correct emphasis on security and performance concerns.
Incorrect answers:
A) Regularly removing unnecessary software is not essential for system performance.
C) While some software may have automatic updates for improved functionality, not all 
unnecessary software follows this pattern.
D) Emphasizing that unnecessary software is crucial for enhancing the aesthetics of the 
computer interface is misleading, as the primary concern is security and performance, not 
aesthetics.
Question 56 Correct
What type of information is typically covered by a Non -Disclosure Agreement (NDA) in the 
context of software development?
Publicly available information
General industry knowledge
Your answer is correct
Trade secrets and proprietary information
Non -sensitive project timelines
   Comptia ITF+ Page 355    
Non -sensitive project timelines
Overall explanation
C) NDAs typically cover trade secrets and proprietary information, aiming to protect sensitive 
and confidential details related to the software development process.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Publicly available information is not typically covered by NDAs.
B) General industry knowledge is usually considered common and may not be covered by NDAs.
D) Non -sensitive project timelines are generally not confidential and are not covered by NDAs.
Question 57 Correct
Which type of memory is used to store the computer's BIOS or firmware?
RAM
Cache memory
Your answer is correct
ROM
Virtual memory
Overall explanation
C) ROM is commonly used to store the computer's BIOS (Basic Input/Output System) or 
firmware.
Incorrect Answers:
A) RAM is used for temporary data storage, not for storing firmware.
B) Cache memory is high -speed volatile memory used to store frequently accessed data, not 
firmware.
D) Virtual memory is a concept that involves using part of the hard drive as an extension of 
RAM, not for storing firmware.
Question 58 Incorrect
Which of the following is a characteristic of Software as a Service (SaaS)?
Requires on -premises installation and maintenance.
Offers complete control over the underlying infrastructure.
Correct answer
Typically accessed via a web browser over the internet.
Your answer is incorrect
Suitable for organizations with high customization needs.
Overall explanation
C) One of the key characteristics of SaaS is that it is accessed over the internet through a web 
   Comptia ITF+ Page 356    
C) One of the key characteristics of SaaS is that it is accessed over the internet through a web 
browser, eliminating the need for on -premises installation and maintenance.
Incorrect Answers:
A) This statement is incorrect, as SaaS is known for its cloud -based delivery model that 
eliminates the need for on -premises installation and maintenance.
B) SaaS typically does not offer complete control over the underlying infrastructure, as the 
infrastructure is managed by the SaaS provider.
D) SaaS offerings may have limitations in terms of customization compared to on -premises 
solutions, so this statement is not a characteristic of SaaS.
Question 59 Correct
What does the integrity principle in cybersecurity primarily aim to protect?
Ensuring data is available when needed
Protecting against unauthorized access
Your answer is correct
Maintaining the accuracy and trustworthiness of data
Ensuring the confidentiality of sensitive information
Overall explanation
C) The integrity principle in cybersecurity primarily aims to protect the accuracy and 
trustworthiness of data.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Ensuring data availability is related to availability concerns.
B) Protecting against unauthorized access is more aligned with confidentiality concerns.
D) Ensuring the confidentiality of sensitive information is related to confidentiality concerns.
Question 60 Incorrect
Which database type is suitable for scenarios where data doesn't fit neatly into tables with 
rows and columns?
Correct answer
Semi -structured database
Structured database
Non -structured database
Your answer is incorrect
Unstructured database
Overall explanation
A) A semi -structured database is suitable for scenarios where data doesn't fit neatly into tables 
with rows and columns, providing flexibility in handling diverse data formats.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 357    
with rows and columns, providing flexibility in handling diverse data formats.
Incorrect Answers:
B) Structured databases organize data in tables with rows and columns.
C) Non -structured databases are not a common term; unstructured is more appropriate.
D) Unstructured databases lack predefined structure but might not suit scenarios requiring 
some organization.
Question 61 Correct
Which file system is known for its ability to handle large file sizes and partitions, making it 
suitable for high -capacity storage devices?
HFS+
Your answer is correct
NTFS
FAT32
Ext4
Overall explanation
B) NTFS is known for its ability to handle large file sizes and partitions, making it suitable for 
high -capacity storage devices.
Incorrect Answers:
A) HFS+ is efficient but may not be as well -suited for extremely large capacities.
C) FAT32 has limitations on file size and partition size.
D) Ext4 is commonly used in Linux and supports large file sizes but may have compatibility 
issues with some systems.
Question 62 Correct
What is the purpose of firmware updates?
To upgrade the computer's hardware components
Your answer is correct
To improve the performance and functionality of the device
To install a new operating system
To expand the storage capacity of the device
Overall explanation
B) The purpose of firmware updates is to improve the performance and functionality of the 
device.
Incorrect Answers:
   Comptia ITF+ Page 358    
Incorrect Answers:
A) Firmware updates are focused on software improvements, not hardware upgrades.
C) Installing a new operating system is different from updating firmware.
D) Expanding storage capacity is typically not achieved through firmware updates.
Question 63 Correct
When setting up IP -based peripherals, what information is essential for configuring their 
connection to the network?
Software version of the peripherals
MAC address of the peripherals
Serial numbers of the peripherals
Your answer is correct
IP addresses and subnet masks
Overall explanation
D) When setting up IP -based peripherals, essential information for configuring their connection 
to the network includes IP addresses and subnet masks.
Incorrect Answers:
A)Software version is more relevant for updates and compatibility, not network configuration.
B) MAC address is a unique hardware identifier but is not used for network configuration.
C) Serial numbers are typically used for identification and warranty purposes, not network 
configuration.
Question 64 Incorrect
Which protocol is primarily responsible for sending outgoing emails from an email client to a 
mail server for delivery?
Your answer is incorrect
POP3
Correct answer
SMTP
IMAP
HTTP
Overall explanation
B) SMTP (Simple Mail Transfer Protocol) is primarily responsible for sending outgoing emails 
from an email client to a mail server for delivery.
Incorrect Answers:
A) POP3 is used for retrieving, not sending, emails.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 359    
C) IMAP is used for managing emails on the server, not sending outgoing emails.
D) HTTP is used for web communication, not email delivery.
Question 65 Correct
Which of the following is an example of mitigating the risk of dumpster diving?
Implementing strict access controls for digital files.
Using a centralized database for storing sensitive information.
Your answer is correct
Training employees on secure disposal practices for physical documents.
Increasing the complexity of passwords for online accounts.
Overall explanation
C) Training employees on secure disposal practices for physical documents is an example of 
mitigating the risk of dumpster diving.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Strict access controls for digital files are unrelated to physical document disposal.
B) Using a centralized database is a security measure for digital, not physical, information.
D) Increasing password complexity is a measure for digital security, not dumpster diving.
Question 66 Incorrect
What is a common step in the web -based configuration process for network devices, such as 
routers or switches?
Your answer is incorrect
Configuring IP -based peripherals
Running system diagnostics
Correct answer
Setting up security protocols
Activating software licenses
Overall explanation
C) A common step in the web -based configuration process for network devices is setting up 
security protocols.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Configuring IP -based peripherals is more specific to peripherals and may not be a common 
step in the device's configuration.
B) Running system diagnostics can be part of the configuration but is not always a common 
step.
D) Activating software licenses is typically done separately from the device's web -based 
configuration.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 360    
configuration.
Question 67 Correct
What is the primary purpose of a heat sink in a computer system?
To cool the entire computer case
To absorb and store excess heat
Your answer is correct
To dissipate heat from specific components, such as the CPU
To provide additional storage capacity
Overall explanation
C) The primary purpose of a heat sink in a computer system is to dissipate heat from specific 
components, such as the CPU.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Heat sinks are not designed to cool the entire computer case; they target specific 
components.
B) Heat sinks dissipate heat rather than absorb and store it.
D) Providing additional storage capacity is typically associated with storage devices, not heat 
sinks.
Question 68 Correct
What is a key reason for carefully reviewing software license agreements before installation?
To expedite the installation process
To identify the software version
Your answer is correct
To understand usage restrictions and permissions
To determine system compatibility
Overall explanation
C) Carefully reviewing software license agreements before installation is important to 
understand usage restrictions and permissions.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Reviewing license agreements may take time, but it is crucial for legal and ethical 
considerations.
B) The software version is typically mentioned in the documentation or during the installation 
process.
D) System compatibility is usually addressed in system requirements rather than license 
agreements.
Question 69 Correct
   Comptia ITF+ Page 361    
Question 69 Correct
What is the primary purpose of file compression in computing, and how does it benefit users?
Your answer is correct
Compression reduces file size, saving storage space, and facilitates faster data transfer.
Compression enhances file security by encrypting data and restricting access.
Compression improves file organization through the use of access control lists.
Compression enables real -time monitoring and logging of file activities.
Overall explanation
A) File compression primarily reduces file size, saving storage space, and facilitating faster data 
transfer.
Incorrect Answers:
B) Encryption is a separate process for enhancing file security.
C) Access control lists (ACLs) are related to permissions, not compression.
D) Real -time monitoring and logging are features associated with journaling, not compression.
Question 70 Correct
What is the purpose of journaling in a file system?
Provides compression for file data
Your answer is correct
Records changes in a log for recovery after system crashes
Enforces file naming rules and restrictions
Facilitates real -time encryption of file data
Overall explanation
B) Journaling records changes in a log for recovery after system crashes. It helps maintain data 
integrity and allows the system to recover to a consistent state in case of failures.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Journaling is not designed for providing compression but for tracking changes.
C) Enforcing file naming rules is a different aspect of file management, not related to journaling.
D) Journaling focuses on tracking changes and recovery, not real -time encryption.
Question 71 Correct
You're assisting a client who frequently travels for work and needs a portable storage solution 
for important documents and presentations. Considering the client's mobility and need for 
durability, which storage type would you recommend?
Your answer is correct
USB Flash Drive
   Comptia ITF+ Page 362    
USB Flash Drive
External Hard Drive
SD Card
Cloud Storage
Overall explanation
A) A USB Flash Drive is a portable and durable option, ideal for carrying important documents 
and presentations while traveling.
Incorrect Answers:
B) External hard drives, while portable, may be bulkier and less convenient for frequent travel.
C) SD cards are compact but may not offer the same ease of use for document sharing and 
collaboration.
D) Cloud storage relies on internet connectivity and may not be accessible in all travel 
situations.
Question 72 Correct
In a small office with multiple interconnected computers, which network type would be most 
suitable for facilitating fast communication and resource sharing among the computers within 
the same physical location?
WAN (Wide Area Network)
Your answer is correct
LAN (Local Area Network)
MAN (Metropolitan Area Network)
PAN (Personal Area Network)
Overall explanation
B) LAN (Local Area Network) is designed for a small geographical area, making it ideal for fast 
communication and resource sharing within the same physical location.
Incorrect Answers:
A) WANs cover larger geographical areas and may introduce latency for local communication.
C) MANs are designed for larger areas than LANs and may not be necessary for a small office.
D)PANs are typically used for personal device connections and are not suited for office -wide 
communication.
Question 73 Incorrect
Which device is primarily used for directing data traffic between devices within a local area 
network (LAN) based on their MAC addresses?
Modem
Your answer is incorrect
   Comptia ITF+ Page 363    
Router
Correct answer
Switch
Firewall
Overall explanation
C) A Switch is primarily used for directing data traffic between devices within a local area 
network (LAN) based on their MAC addresses.
Incorrect Answers:
A) A Modem translates digital data for communication over various types of networks.
B) A Router manages data traffic between different networks.
D) A Firewall is a security device that monitors and controls incoming and outgoing network 
traffic based on predetermined security rules.
Question 74 Correct
Which cybersecurity principle is concerned with preventing unauthorized access to sensitive 
information?
Availability
Your answer is correct
Confidentiality
Integrity
Authentication
Overall explanation
B) Confidentiality in cybersecurity is concerned with preventing unauthorized access to 
sensitive information.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Availability focuses on ensuring the reliability of access to information.
C) Integrity is about maintaining the accuracy and trustworthiness of data.
D) Authentication involves verifying the identity of users.
Question 75 Correct
What is a key advantage of using an add -on NIC card over relying solely on the on -board 
network interface?
Lower cost
Your answer is correct
Faster data transfer rates
   Comptia ITF+ Page 364    
Faster data transfer rates
Integration into the motherboard
Improved reliability
Overall explanation
B) A key advantage of using an add -on NIC card can be faster data transfer rates compared to 
relying solely on the on -board network interface.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Lower cost is not always the case for add -on NIC cards; it depends on the specific model and 
features.
C) On -board NICs are integrated into the motherboard, while add -on NIC cards are external 
components.
D) Reliability can vary between different NIC models, both on -board and add -on.
Exam 4: 
Question 1 Correct
Which of the following is an open -source operating system?
Windows 10
macOS
Your answer is correct
Ubuntu
iOS
Overall explanation
C) Ubuntu is an open -source operating system based on Linux. It is widely used for servers, 
desktops, and cloud environments.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Windows 10 is a proprietary operating system developed by Microsoft.
B) macOS is a proprietary operating system developed by Apple.
D) iOS is also proprietary, developed by Apple for its mobile devices.
Question 2 Correct
You are logging in to your online bank account. The bank requires you to enter your username 
and password. What type of authentication is this?
Biometric authentication
Multi -factor authentication (MFA)
Your answer is correct
Single -factor authentication (SFA)
   Comptia ITF+ Page 365    
Token -based authentication
Overall explanation
C) This relies on one factor, typically a username and password (1 form of authentication), for 
user verification.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Biometric authentication uses unique biological characteristics like fingerprints.
B) Multi -factor authentication (MFA) requires two or more factors for verification.
D) Token -based authentication can be part of MFA, but SFA doesn't necessarily involve tokens.
Question 3 Correct
John needs to connect his new high -definition monitor to his computer to display crisp images 
and videos. Which type of input/output device interface should he use for connecting the 
monitor?
Your answer is correct
DVI
VGA
Serial
Parallel
Overall explanation
A) DVI (Digital Visual Interface) is commonly used to connect monitors and other display 
devices to computers. It supports high -definition video signals and provides a digital 
connection, ensuring optimal image quality compared to older interfaces like VGA.
Incorrect Answers:
B) VGA is an analog interface that supports lower resolutions compared to DVI for high -
definition displays.
C) Serial ports are used for connecting serial devices such as modems, mice, and keyboards, not 
monitors.
D) Parallel ports are typically used for connecting printers and other peripherals, not monitors.
Question 4 Correct
You're programming a light control system where a variable needs to represent whether the 
light is on or off. Which data type is best suited to represent this state?
String
Integer
Your answer is correct
Boolean
Float
   Comptia ITF+ Page 366    
Float
Overall explanation
C) A boolean data type is specifically designed to hold two values: true or false, making it ideal 
for representing binary states such as a light being on or off. It's the most efficient choice for 
this purpose, in terms of both memory usage and readability.
Incorrect Answers:
A) String could technically represent this state with values like "on" or "off," but it's less 
efficient and would require unnecessary string comparison.
B) Integer could be used (e.g., 0 for off, 1 for on), but it's less clear than a boolean and allows 
for a broader range of values than needed.
D) Float is designed to hold decimal numbers and is not suitable for binary states.
Question 5 Correct
You're explaining to a new IT intern why the CPU (Central Processing Unit) is often referred to 
as the "brain" of the computer. Which of the following activities does NOT directly involve the 
CPU?
Executing a program's instructions
Your answer is correct
Storing files for long -term retrieval
Performing arithmetic calculations
Decoding instruction sets
Overall explanation
B) The CPU is responsible for executing program instructions, performing calculations, and 
decoding instruction sets. However, storing files for long -term retrieval is a function of storage 
devices like hard drives or SSDs, not the CPU.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Executing a program's instructions is a primary function of the CPU.
C) Performing arithmetic calculations is a key part of what the CPU does, especially in the ALU 
(Arithmetic Logic Unit).
D) Decoding instruction sets to understand what actions to perform is another crucial role of 
the CPU.
Question 6 Incorrect
A startup tech company decides to use a logo very similar to that of a major technology 
company, with only minor color changes. They argue that because they are not in the same 
geographical region, it should not be an issue. This practice could potentially lead to:
A patent infringement lawsuit.
Your answer is incorrect
   Comptia ITF+ Page 367    
A copyright infringement claim.
Correct answer
A trademark infringement lawsuit.
No legal consequences, as trademarks are region -specific.
Overall explanation
C) Trademarks protect symbols, names, and slogans used to identify goods or services. Using a 
logo that is confusingly similar to that of another company, especially a well -known one, can 
lead to a trademark infringement lawsuit, even if the companies are in different geographical 
areas, especially if the trademark is registered internationally or in the respective regions.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Patents protect inventions or discoveries, not logos or brand identifiers.
B) Copyrights protect original works of authorship, such as writings, music, and art, not logos 
used for business identification.
D) While trademarks can have geographical limitations, major companies often register their 
trademarks in multiple jurisdictions, and famous trademarks may receive broader protection.
Question 7 Correct
A graphic designer is comparing two computers. Computer A has a processor speed of 3.0 GHz, 
while Computer B has a processor speed of 2.4 GHz but features a higher number of cores. 
Assuming all other specifications are equal and the designer’s software can utilize multiple 
cores efficiently, which computer is likely to offer better performance for graphic design tasks?
Computer A
Your answer is correct
Computer B
Both will perform the same
Cannot determine without more information
Overall explanation
B) For applications that are optimized to utilize multiple cores, a processor with a higher 
number of cores can offer better performance even if its clock speed is lower. This is because 
the workload can be distributed across more cores, potentially improving the efficiency and 
speed of processing tasks like graphic design.
Incorrect Answers:
A) While Computer A has a higher clock speed, this alone doesn't guarantee better 
performance for tasks that can benefit from multiple cores.
C) Performance will not be the same if Computer B can effectively utilize its additional cores for 
the graphic design software.
D) While more information about the exact number of cores and the type of tasks could further 
clarify, based on the given scenario, Computer B is suggested to be potentially more suitable for 
   Comptia ITF+ Page 368    
clarify, based on the given scenario, Computer B is suggested to be potentially more suitable for 
multitasking and parallel processing tasks common in graphic design.
Question 8 Correct
After troubleshooting a printer that wasn’t printing for multiple users, you discover that the 
issue was due to an IP conflict between the printer and another device on the network. After 
resolving the IP conflict, what should you do next?
Your answer is correct
Document the resolution process and outcomes.
Send an email to all staff explaining how to avoid such conflicts.
Monitor the printer usage for the next few days.
Conduct a training session on network management for the users.
Overall explanation
A) Documentation is crucial in troubleshooting to ensure that the solution and the problem are 
recorded for future reference. This can help prevent future occurrences and aid others who 
might encounter similar issues.
Incorrect Answers:
B) While educating staff might help prevent future issues, it is not the immediate next step 
after resolving an IP conflict. The priority is to ensure that the solution is effective and well -
documented before addressing broader preventative measures.
C) Monitoring the printer could help confirm the solution's effectiveness, but it is secondary to 
documenting the resolution. Continuous monitoring isn't necessary unless the initial solution 
fails or the problem recurs, making it less immediate than documenting the fix.
D) This option, while potentially beneficial in a broad educational context, is not a direct or 
necessary follow -up to resolving a specific technical issue like an IP conflict. Training sessions 
are resource -intensive and generally planned as part of broader IT strategy, not as an 
immediate response to individual troubleshooting outcomes.
Question 9 Correct
You're troubleshooting a malfunctioning external hard drive. The drive has a USB 3.0 interface, 
but your computer only has older USB 2.0 ports. Will the hard drive still function, and if so, will 
its performance be affected?
No, the drive will not function with a USB 2.0 port.
Yes, the drive will function normally with a USB 2.0 port.
Your answer is correct
Yes, the drive will function, but with slower transfer speeds.
Yes, the drive will function, but only if you use a special adapter.
Overall explanation
C) Yes, the drive will function, but with slower transfer speeds. USB 3.0 is backwards compatible 
   Comptia ITF+ Page 369    
C) Yes, the drive will function, but with slower transfer speeds. USB 3.0 is backwards compatible 
with USB 2.0 ports. However, the data transfer speed will be limited to the slower USB 2.0 
standard.
Incorrect Answers:
A) USB is backwards compatible. While newer versions offer higher speeds, they should still 
function with older ports.
B) USB 3.0 offers faster transfer speeds than USB 2.0.
D) No special adapter is needed for basic functionality.
Question 10 Correct
Tom's computer starts up but fails to complete the boot process, and there is a series of beeps. 
What component of the motherboard is directly responsible for these beeps?
Your answer is correct
The BIOS
The speaker
The RAM
The power supply
Overall explanation
A) The BIOS is responsible for performing the power -on self -test (POST). If it detects an issue 
during startup, it uses the motherboard speaker to emit beep codes indicative of specific 
problems.
Incorrect Answers:
B) While the speaker is the physical source of the beeps, it is not the component that 
determines or controls the beep codes.
C) RAM could be the cause of the issue detected, but it does not generate the beep codes.
D) The power supply provides power but does not control the diagnostic beep codes.
Question 11 Correct
You're noticing a significant slowdown in your computer's performance. It takes a long time to 
open programs and switch between tasks. What internal component is MOST LIKELY the 
bottleneck causing this performance issue?
CPU
Your answer is correct
RAM
HDD or SSD
GPU
Overall explanation
B) Insufficient RAM can lead to slow performance as the computer struggles to handle running 
   Comptia ITF+ Page 370    
B) Insufficient RAM can lead to slow performance as the computer struggles to handle running 
programs and manage temporary data.
Incorrect Answers:
A) While a failing CPU could cause slowdowns, insufficient RAM is a more common culprit for 
general performance issues.
C) A failing storage drive might affect program loading times, but wouldn't necessarily slow 
down everything.
D) The GPU primarily affects graphics processing and wouldn't directly cause slowness in 
switching between tasks.
Question 12 Correct
Jim lives in a rural area and works from home. He needs a stable Internet connection that can 
handle video conferencing and large file transfers. His options are limited due to his location. 
Which Internet service should he consider?
Fiber -optic Internet
DSL Internet
Your answer is correct
Satellite Internet
Mobile broadband
Overall explanation
C) In rural areas where options like fiber -optic or DSL may not be available, satellite Internet is a 
viable option as it provides broader coverage and can support video conferencing and file 
transfers despite potential issues with latency.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Fiber -optic Internet offers the best speeds and reliability but often is not available in rural 
areas.
B) DSL Internet might be available but can offer inconsistent speeds that might not support 
Jim's needs effectively, especially if the infrastructure is outdated.
D) Mobile broadband could be an option but often has data caps and less stable connectivity 
compared to satellite in rural settings.
Question 13 Correct
After a sudden power outage, the IT manager at a graphic design company needs to assess 
potential data loss. She is determining which types of storage might have been affected. Which 
type of storage would most likely retain data despite the power outage?
RAM
Your answer is correct
SSD
CPU cache
   Comptia ITF+ Page 371    
CPU cache
GPU memory
Overall explanation
B) SSDs are a type of non -volatile storage, meaning they retain data even when the power is 
turned off, unlike RAM or cache memory, which are volatile and lose their content without 
power.
Incorrect Answers:
A) RAM is volatile storage and loses its data without power.
C) CPU cache is a type of volatile memory designed for speed, not data permanence, and loses 
its content when power is lost.
D) GPU memory, similar to RAM, is volatile and loses its information without power.
Question 14 Correct
You are setting up a home network for a family with young children. The parents want to 
restrict access to certain websites and online content to ensure a safe browsing experience for 
their children. Which of the following network devices or services would you recommend to 
achieve this goal?
Parental control software on individual devices
Your answer is correct
Content filtering feature on the router
Virtual private network (VPN)
Network firewall with application control
Overall explanation
B) Many modern routers offer content filtering features that allow parents to restrict access to 
specific websites and online content at the network level, ensuring a safe browsing experience 
for their children across all devices connected to the network.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Parental control software on individual devices: While parental control software can be 
effective, it requires installation and configuration on each individual device, which may be 
cumbersome for managing multiple devices.
C) A VPN is used to establish a secure and encrypted connection to a private network over the 
internet and does not provide content filtering capabilities.
D) While a network firewall can block unwanted network traffic, including access to specific 
websites, it typically does not offer granular content filtering capabilities required for parental 
controls.
Question 15 Correct
A company has multiple branch offices located in different cities. Each branch office has its own 
local network for internal communication, but they also need to connect to the company's 
   Comptia ITF+ Page 372    
local network for internal communication, but they also need to connect to the company's 
central network for accessing shared resources. Which type of network encompasses the 
connections between the branch offices and the central network?
LAN
Your answer is correct
WAN
PAN
MAN
Overall explanation
B) A WAN (Wide Area Network) connects multiple LANs or other types of networks over a large 
geographical area, such as between branch offices and a central office.
Incorrect Answers:
A) LAN (Local Area Network) typically covers a smaller geographical area, such as a single office 
building or campus, and does not encompass connections between separate branch offices.
C) PAN (Personal Area Network) is a network used for connecting devices within close proximity 
of an individual, such as Bluetooth devices.
D) MAN (Metropolitan Area Network) connects multiple LANs within the same city or 
metropolitan area and does not typically extend to connections between branch offices in 
different cities.
Question 16 Correct
A network administrator needs to configure a secure network environment to allow only 
specific devices access to the network. The network includes computers, printers, and phones. 
What network feature should the administrator configure to meet this requirement?
Your answer is correct
Implement MAC address filtering on the network devices.
Set up a firewall to block unknown IP addresses.
Configure a VLAN for each device type.
Use network monitoring tools to block unauthorized devices.
Overall explanation
A) MAC address filtering allows network administrators to create a list of permitted device MAC 
addresses that can connect to the network, effectively blocking all devices not on the list from 
accessing network resources.
Incorrect Answers:
B) Blocking unknown IP addresses is useful but does not specifically restrict access based on 
device hardware, which can be circumvented more easily.
C) VLANs segregate network traffic but don't restrict device access to the network itself.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 373    
D) Network monitoring tools can detect unauthorized devices but are reactive rather than 
proactive in controlling access.
Question 17 Incorrect
You are helping a friend set up their email client. They want to be able to access their emails 
from any device, and they also want a copy of the emails to be stored on the server. Which 
protocol should you recommend?
HTTP
HTTPS
Your answer is incorrect
POP3
Correct answer
IMAP
Overall explanation
D) IMAP (Internet Message Access Protocol) allows users to access and manage their emails 
from any device. Unlike POP3, which downloads emails to a single device, IMAP keeps a copy of 
the emails on the server, allowing access from anywhere.
Incorrect Answers:
A & B) HTTP and HTTPS are protocols used for web browsing, not email access.
C) POP3 (Post Office Protocol) downloads emails to a single device, not ideal for accessing 
emails from multiple devices.
Question 18 Correct
You are troubleshooting an issue where a user cannot send emails. They have verified their 
email address and password are correct. Which protocol is MOST LIKELY causing the problem?
HTTP
IMAP
Your answer is correct
SMTP
POP3
Overall explanation
C) SMTP (Simple Mail Transfer Protocol) is responsible for sending emails. If there's an issue 
with the SMTP server configuration or connection, emails wouldn't be sent properly.
Incorrect Answers:
A & B) HTTP and IMAP are used for web browsing and email access, not sending emails.
D) POP3 is used for retrieving emails, not sending them.
Question 19 Correct
   Comptia ITF+ Page 374    
Question 19 Correct
A coffee shop is upgrading its Wi -Fi system to better serve customers who use a variety of 
devices ranging from older laptops to the latest smartphones. They need a solution that 
maximizes compatibility and speed. What wireless standard should the coffee shop's new 
routers support to best meet these requirements?
802.11a
802.11b
802.11g
Your answer is correct
802.11ac
Overall explanation
D) The 802.11ac standard supports higher data rates, improved capacity, and better 
performance in dense environments compared to older standards. It is also backward 
compatible with 802.11b/g/n, ensuring that older devices can still connect.
Incorrect Answers:
A) 802.11a provides faster speeds than 802.11b/g but operates only on the 5GHz band, which 
might not be supported by all older devices.
B) 802.11b is widely compatible but offers the slowest speeds, which could lead to a poor user 
experience.
C) 802.11g is better than 802.11b and supports speeds up to 54 Mbps, but it is not as efficient 
as 802.11ac in handling multiple connections.
Question 20 Correct
You are configuring a wireless access point for a large conference room. The room will have 
multiple attendees with various devices. Which Wi -Fi standard should you choose to ensure 
optimal performance and support for a large number of simultaneous connections?
802.11a
802.11b
802.11g
Your answer is correct
802.11n
Overall explanation
D) 802.11n (also known as Wi -Fi 4) provides improved performance, better coverage, and 
support for multiple spatial streams. It is suitable for large conference rooms with many 
attendees and diverse devices.
Incorrect Answers:
A) 802.11a operates in the 5 GHz band but may not support as many simultaneous connections.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 375    
B) 802.11b has slower speeds and limited range.
C) 802.11g offers better coverage but may not handle high -density scenarios well.
Question 21 Correct
A university's IT department needs to manage several different server applications requiring 
separate operating environments on a limited hardware budget. What is the primary benefit of 
using a Type 1 hypervisor in this scenario?
To install more applications on the same hardware
Your answer is correct
To allow each application to use its own operating system
To improve graphical performance for user interfaces
To decrease the physical footprint of the server hardware
Overall explanation
B) A Type 1 hypervisor provides the capability to run multiple virtual machines each with its 
own operating system independently on the same physical hardware, thereby meeting diverse 
environment requirements without additional hardware expense.
Incorrect Answers:
A) While installing more applications is possible, the primary benefit in this scenario is the 
separation of environments, not merely the quantity of applications.
C) Type 1 hypervisors are not typically used to improve graphical performance, as they are 
often used in server environments where GUI is minimal.
D) While virtualization can lead to reduced physical footprint, the direct benefit here is 
operational flexibility and environment isolation.
Question 22 Correct
A user wishes to transfer large video files between a Mac computer and a Windows PC using an 
external hard drive. The user has formatted the drive with FAT32 but finds they cannot transfer 
a video file larger than 4GB. What is the limitation here?
Your answer is correct
FAT32 does not support files larger than 4GB.
FAT32 cannot be used on Mac computers.
FAT32 does not support external drives.
FAT32 does not support multimedia files.
Overall explanation
A) FAT32 has a file size limitation where no single file can exceed 4GB. This limitation is the 
reason why the user cannot transfer large video files exceeding this size.
Incorrect Answers:
B) FAT32 can be used on both Mac and Windows computers, providing interoperability.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 376    
B) FAT32 can be used on both Mac and Windows computers, providing interoperability.
C) FAT32 can be used with external drives; the issue is related to file size, not the drive type.
D) FAT32 supports all types of files, including multimedia; the limitation is only the file size.
Question 23 Incorrect
A company utilizes a client -server application where the server hosts the database and the 
clients are responsible for presenting the user interface and application logic. What type of 
application architecture does this scenario best represent?
One -tier
Correct answer
Two -tier
Three -tier
Your answer is incorrect
N-tier
Overall explanation
B) In a two -tier architecture, the application is divided between a client and a server. The client 
handles the presentation and application logic, while the server manages the database. This 
model fits the scenario where clients and a server are distinctly utilized.
Incorrect Answers:
A) One -tier would involve everything running on a single platform, which is not the case.
C) Three -tier involves separating presentation, application processing, and data management 
into three different tiers.
D) N -tier involves more complex interactions across multiple layers, not just client and server.
Question 24 Correct
A user frequently encounters pop -ups that disrupt her browsing experience on her personal 
laptop. She wants to block these pop -ups to avoid unwanted ads and potential malware risks. 
What should she do to prevent pop -ups in her web browser?
Install an ad -blocking browser extension.
Disable JavaScript.
Your answer is correct
Go to browser settings and enable the pop -up blocker.
Increase browser security by setting it to the highest level.
Overall explanation
C) Most browsers include a built -in pop -up blocker that can be enabled in the settings, 
effectively blocking most unwanted pop -ups without additional tools.
Incorrect Answers:
   Comptia ITF+ Page 377    
A) Install an ad -blocking browser extension: Incorrect as a more direct and simple solution is 
using the built -in pop -up blocker, though ad -blockers can also be effective.
B) Disable JavaScript: Incorrect because this can severely affect the functionality of many 
websites.
D) Increase browser security by setting it to the highest level: Incorrect as this may not 
specifically target pop -ups and can restrict other browser functionalities.
Question 25 Incorrect
An IT technician is tasked with installing an accounting software package on several computers 
in an office. Before installation, what is the most important action the technician should take to 
ensure successful installation and operation of the software?
Your answer is incorrect
Back up the current data on all computers where the software will be installed.
Install the software on one computer as a test before deploying it on all computers.
Ensure the software is compatible with the office’s antivirus program.
Correct answer
Check the software’s system requirements against the computer’s specifications.
Overall explanation
D) Ensuring the software’s system requirements match the computer’s specifications is crucial 
to avoid installation issues and ensure the software runs efficiently.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Data backup is a best practice but secondary to verifying system requirements for 
installation.
B) This is a valid practice but not the most important initial action.
C) While important, this is not as critical as confirming system requirements.
Question 26 Correct
A web developer needs to add interactive features to a website, such as form validations and 
dynamic content updates. The developer is considering JavaScript. Why is JavaScript a suitable 
choice for these tasks?
Because JavaScript is a compiled language that ensures fast execution.
Your answer is correct
Because JavaScript is an interpreted scripting language that runs in the browser.
Because JavaScript is a markup language that structures web content.
Because JavaScript requires a server -side environment to execute.
Overall explanation
B) JavaScript is executed client -side by the web browser, allowing dynamic interactions within 
web pages without the need for a page reload.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 378    
Incorrect Answers:
A) Incorrect because JavaScript is interpreted, not compiled.
C) Incorrect as JavaScript is not a markup language but a scripting language.
D) Incorrect because JavaScript primarily runs client -side, not server -side (though it can also run 
on the server with environments like Node.js).
Question 27 Incorrect
A developer is creating a program to manage employee records. Each employee has a unique 
employee number. How should the developer use identifiers to manage this data effectively?
Your answer is incorrect
Use the employee number as a variable to store each employee's data.
Use a constant to assign each employee their employee number.
Correct answer
Use the employee number as an identifier for an array that stores employee records.
Use a function named after each employee number to access their records.
Overall explanation
C) Using the employee number as an index or key in an array (or more appropriately, a 
hashmap or dictionary in some languages) allows efficient access and management of each 
employee's data using their unique identifier.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Using a variable for each employee would be inefficient and not scalable.
B) Constants cannot be assigned dynamically and are not suitable for values that vary.
D) Creating a function for each employee is impractical and does not adhere to good 
programming practices.
Question 28 Correct
A marketing department wants to find all customers who have made a purchase in the last 
month. What database operation would they use to achieve this?
Create
Import/Input
Your answer is correct
Query
Reports
Overall explanation
C) A query allows filtering and retrieving specific data from the database based on defined 
criteria (e.g., purchase date in the last month)
   Comptia ITF+ Page 379    
Incorrect Answers:
A) Create is used to define the structure of the database tables.
B) Import/Input is used to transfer data into the database.
D) Reports use data retrieved from queries to generate summaries.
Question 29 Incorrect
A social media platform needs to store a vast amount of user data, including posts, photos, and 
connections. Why might a non -relational database be a suitable choice for this scenario?
Your answer is incorrect
Non -relational databases are more secure than relational databases.
Correct answer
They offer greater flexibility for storing data with varying structures.
They are always faster than relational databases for all queries.
Non -relational databases require less maintenance compared to relational databases.
Overall explanation
B) Social media data can be diverse, with posts, photos, and connections having different 
structures. Non -relational databases can accommodate this flexibility, unlike relational 
databases that require predefined schemas.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Security is not inherently better in non -relational databases.
C) Performance depends on the specific query and data size.
D) Maintenance can vary depending on the database type.
Question 30 Correct
A company wants to update their database by adding a new column to an existing table to 
capture customer email addresses. What data definition operation would be most appropriate?
Create
Your answer is correct
Alter
Drop
Permissions
Overall explanation
B) The Alter operation allows modifying the structure of an existing table, including adding new 
columns for additional data points like email addresses.
Incorrect Answers:
   Comptia ITF+ Page 380    
Incorrect Answers:
A) Create is used for defining entirely new tables.
C) Drop removes tables, not used for adding columns.
D) Permissions control user access, not table structure modifications.
Question 31 Incorrect
A company's server experiences frequent unexpected shutdowns due to power failures. To 
minimize data loss and ensure the integrity of file operations, the IT department is considering 
upgrading the file system. Which feature should the IT department look for in a new file system 
to meet their needs?
Your answer is incorrect
Compression
Encryption
Correct answer
Journaling
Archiving
Overall explanation
C) Journaling is a feature in file systems designed to keep track of changes not yet committed to 
the main file system. In case of a system crash or power failure, journaling helps in recovering 
corrupt files by replaying these changes.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Compression: While useful for saving space, it doesn’t help in recovering data after crashes.
B) Encryption: Important for security, but does not aid in data recovery post -crash.
D) Archiving: Useful for data storage and backups but doesn't help with active file system 
recovery.
Question 32 Incorrect
A journalist needs to access online resources for sensitive stories without revealing their IP 
address to avoid potential tracking and to bypass regional content restrictions. What should the 
journalist configure in their browser to anonymize their web traffic?
Your answer is incorrect
VPN service
Correct answer
Proxy server settings
Firewall rules
SSL certificates
Overall explanation
B) Configuring a browser to use a proxy server can help hide the user’s actual IP address by 
routing traffic through a different server. This is useful for maintaining anonymity and 
   Comptia ITF+ Page 381    
routing traffic through a different server. This is useful for maintaining anonymity and 
bypassing regional restrictions.
Incorrect Answers:
A) VPN service: Although a VPN is a viable solution for this scenario, the question specifically 
asks about browser configurations.
C) Firewall rules: This controls network traffic based on security settings but does not 
anonymize IP addresses.
D) SSL certificates: These secure data transmissions but do not hide IP addresses.
Question 33 Incorrect
You are assisting a user who is experiencing performance issues with their computer. The user 
mentions that the computer takes a long time to boot up and frequently freezes when multiple 
applications are open. Which of the following actions should you recommend to improve the 
computer's performance?
Your answer is incorrect
Install additional RAM
Upgrade the CPU
Correct answer
Replace the hard drive with an SSD
Reinstall the operating system
Overall explanation
C) Replacing the traditional hard drive with a solid -state drive (SSD) is one of the most effective 
ways to improve a computer's performance. SSDs offer faster read and write speeds compared 
to traditional hard disk drives (HDDs), resulting in quicker boot times and improved overall 
system responsiveness.
Incorrect Answers:
A) While adding more RAM can improve multitasking performance, it may not address the 
underlying issue of slow disk access times.
B) Upgrading the CPU may improve processing performance but is unlikely to address the 
specific issues related to slow boot times and application freezes.
D) Reinstalling the operating system should be considered as a last resort and may not 
necessarily improve performance if the underlying hardware is the bottleneck. Additionally, it 
can be time -consuming and may result in data loss if not done correctly.
Question 34 Correct
A user needs to use a word processing software to create documents on their computer. They 
want to ensure that they can use the software even when they are not connected to the 
internet. Which application delivery method should the user choose?
Your answer is correct
   Comptia ITF+ Page 382    
Your answer is correct
Locally installed
Local network hosted
Cloud -based
Web -based
Overall explanation
A) For offline access to a word processing software, the user should choose a locally installed 
application. With a locally installed application, the software is installed on the user's computer, 
and files are saved locally. Internet access is not required to use the software.
Incorrect Answers:
B) Local network hosted applications require network connectivity to access the application, 
which may not be suitable for offline use.
C) Cloud -based applications require internet access to access the software and data stored in 
the cloud, making them unsuitable for offline use.
D) Web -based applications are accessed through a web browser and require internet 
connectivity to use, so they are not suitable for offline use.
Question 35 Correct
A system administrator needs to check the network connectivity of a server by sending a series 
of ICMP echo requests (ping) to various network devices. Which interface should the 
administrator use to execute the ping command and view the results in text format?
File Explorer
Your answer is correct
Command Prompt
Task Manager
Control Panel
Overall explanation
B) Command Prompt is a console -based interface on Windows operating systems that allows 
users to interact with the computer by typing commands. The system administrator can use 
Command Prompt to execute the ping command and view the results, which are displayed in 
text format.
Incorrect Answers:
A) File Explorer is a graphical file management interface on Windows operating systems that 
allows users to navigate and manage files and folders using a mouse and keyboard, not to 
execute command -line commands like ping.
C) Task Manager is a system monitoring utility that provides information about running 
applications and processes, but it does not facilitate network diagnostic tasks like executing the 
ping command.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 383    
ping command.
D) Control Panel is a centralized location for accessing various system settings and 
configurations, but it does not provide a command -line interface for executing network 
diagnostic commands like Command Prompt.
Question 36 Correct
You're at the help desk and a user complains their computer monitor flickers constantly, 
making it difficult to work. They haven't downloaded any new software recently and haven't 
noticed any other unusual behavior with the computer. What would be your FIRST 
troubleshooting step to diagnose the issue?
Recommend a software update to fix potential bugs.
Your answer is correct
Check for loose connections with the monitor cable.
Run a virus scan to detect any malware.
Restart the computer to see if the flickering resolves.
Overall explanation
B) While outdated software or viruses could potentially cause visual problems, a loose 
connection with the monitor cable is a more likely cause of constant flickering.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Recommend a software update: Software updates can sometimes resolve display issues, but 
flickering is a less common symptom. Checking for physical problems is a more efficient first 
step.
C) Run a virus scan: Viruses can impact performance, but flickering isn't a typical symptom. A 
virus scan is a good practice, but not the most relevant initial step for this issue.
D) Restart the computer: A restart can sometimes resolve temporary glitches, but it's not as 
likely to fix a hardware issue like a loose cable.
Question 37 Correct
Emily is setting up a proxy server for her organization to improve security and monitor internet 
usage. Which of the following is a potential benefit of using a proxy server in this scenario?
Encryption of network traffic
Your answer is correct
Centralized logging of internet activity
Dynamic IP address assignment
Load balancing of network traffic
Overall explanation
B) By using a proxy server, Emily can centralize the logging of internet activity, allowing her 
organization to monitor and analyze web traffic for security purposes and compliance with 
acceptable use policies.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 384    
Incorrect Answers:
A) Encryption of network traffic is typically achieved through VPNs, not proxy servers.
C) Dynamic IP address assignment is a function of DHCP (Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol), 
not directly related to proxy servers.
D) Load balancing of network traffic is a feature often implemented by routers or specialized 
devices, not proxy servers.
Question 38 Correct
During a business conference call using VoIP technology, participants experience a delay 
between when someone speaks and when others hear it. What term describes this issue?
Data transfer rate.
Signal strength.
Your answer is correct
Latency.
Security protocol.
Overall explanation
C) Latency in VoIP communication refers to the delay between a speaker's message and the 
time it is heard by the listener. High latency can disrupt the flow of conversation, making it 
difficult for participants to interact naturally and promptly.
Incorrect Answers:
A) While related to overall network performance, data transfer rate does not specifically 
describe the delay in hearing speech.
B) Signal strength affects the quality of connection but is distinct from the temporal delay 
described by latency.
D) Security protocols secure data transmission but do not address delays in the delivery of voice 
packets.
Question 39 Correct
A company is considering implementing Single Sign -On (SSO) for all their applications to 
improve user convenience. What is a critical risk associated with SSO that should be addressed?
Increased complexity in user management.
The system might be less user -friendly.
Your answer is correct
SSO can become a single point of failure for access control.
SSO will slow down the system due to frequent authentications.
Overall explanation
C) While SSO improves convenience by allowing users to access multiple services with a single 
set of credentials, it also means that any compromise of the SSO system can grant an attacker 
access to all connected services. This centralization makes it a significant single point of failure 
   Comptia ITF+ Page 385    
access to all connected services. This centralization makes it a significant single point of failure 
that needs robust security measures.
Incorrect Answers:
A) SSO typically reduces complexity in user management by centralizing it.
B) SSO systems are generally designed to be user -friendly, simplifying the login process for 
multiple services.
D) SSO should not slow down systems; it often reduces the need for repeated authentications 
across services.
Question 40 Incorrect
Sarah is creating a document that contains structured data about products in a catalog. She 
wants to use a markup language that allows her to define custom tags and attributes to 
describe the products. Which markup language is most suitable for this purpose?
HTML
Correct answer
XML
Your answer is incorrect
CSS
JSON
Overall explanation
B) XML (Extensible Markup Language) allows users to define custom tags and attributes to 
structure and describe data in a document. It is commonly used for storing and exchanging 
structured data between different systems.
Incorrect Answers:
A) HTML is primarily used for defining the structure and content of web pages and does not 
provide the flexibility to define custom tags and attributes for structured data.
C) CSS is used for styling and formatting web content and does not provide the structure 
needed for describing structured data.
D) JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) is a lightweight data interchange format commonly used 
for transmitting data between a server and a web application but is not a markup language for 
defining document structure.
Question 41 Incorrect
A hacker gains unauthorized access to a company's database and alters financial records to 
manipulate stock prices for personal gain. As a result, the company faces legal repercussions 
and financial losses. Which aspects of the CIA Triad are compromised in this scenario?
Correct answer
Integrity and confidentiality
Confidentiality and availability
   Comptia ITF+ Page 386    
Confidentiality and availability
Integrity and availability
Your answer is incorrect
Confidentiality, integrity, and availability
Overall explanation
A) In this scenario, the hacker's actions compromise the integrity of the financial records by 
altering them for personal gain. Additionally, the unauthorized access to the database 
compromises the confidentiality of the financial records by exposing them to unauthorized 
disclosure.
Incorrect Answers:
B) While unauthorized access may impact confidentiality and availability, the manipulation of 
financial records primarily compromises integrity and confidentiality.
C) While unauthorized access may impact integrity and availability, the manipulation of 
financial records also compromises confidentiality.
D) This option includes all three aspects of the CIA Triad, but the primary focus of the scenario 
is on the compromise of integrity and confidentiality.
Question 42 Correct
A rapidly growing tech startup needs a scalable solution to store and analyze large amounts of 
evolving data types, which may also include unstructured data. What would be the best 
approach to meet their needs?
Continue using a flat file system
Upgrade to a relational database
Your answer is correct
Adopt a NoSQL database solution
Implement a hybrid database system
Overall explanation
C) NoSQL databases are particularly well -suited for handling large volumes of structured, semi -
structured, and unstructured data. They offer flexibility in data models and scalability, which 
are crucial for tech startups dealing with rapidly evolving and diverse data types.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Flat file systems are too simplistic and not scalable enough for handling large amounts of 
diverse and rapidly evolving data.
B) While relational databases are robust and reliable, they might be restrictive when dealing 
with unstructured data and rapid scaling.
D) A hybrid database system could potentially meet their needs but would depend on the 
specific requirements and might overcomplicate the infrastructure without a clear necessity for 
mixed data types.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 387    
mixed data types.
Question 43 Correct
An IT administrator configures a server that contains sensitive financial data. After verifying a 
user's identity, which process determines what level of access to the server the user should 
have based on their job role?
Authentication
Your answer is correct
Authorization
Validation
Verification
Overall explanation
B) Authorization is the process of granting an authenticated user permission to access specific 
resources or functions based on their roles or policies. In this scenario, once the user's identity 
is authenticated, authorization will determine their access level to the sensitive financial data.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Authentication verifies identity but does not define access levels.
C) Validation is a process related to ensuring data is correct and useful but is not related to user 
access control.
D) Verification is part of the authentication process, ensuring that the data matches its 
intended source, not the granting of permissions.
Question 44 Correct
An IT analyst is tasked with designing a new network layout for an office, including placement 
of routers, switches, and cabling routes. Which software would be most suitable for creating a 
visual diagram of this network?
Word processing software
Spreadsheet software
Presentation software
Your answer is correct
Visual diagramming software
Overall explanation
D) Visual diagramming software is specifically designed for creating complex diagrams and 
visual representations of systems, such as network diagrams. It offers tools for accurately 
representing the placement of physical and logical network components, making it invaluable 
for planning IT infrastructure.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Word processing software is primarily used for text documents and lacks the capabilities to 
   Comptia ITF+ Page 388    
A) Word processing software is primarily used for text documents and lacks the capabilities to 
create detailed technical diagrams.
B) Spreadsheet software can manage data but does not have the features necessary for 
designing detailed network diagrams.
C) Presentation software can show simpler diagrams but does not have the advanced tools 
needed for precise network planning and design.
Question 45 Correct
John, a junior programmer, is writing code for a project and needs to declare variables to store 
different types of data. He wants to ensure that his variable names are valid and adhere to 
naming conventions. Which programming concept should John consider when choosing names 
for his variables?
Your answer is correct
Identifiers
Constants
Data types
Keywords
Overall explanation
A) Identifiers in programming are names given to variables, functions, classes, or other entities 
in a program. When choosing names for variables, John should consider identifiers and adhere 
to naming conventions, such as using descriptive names, starting with a letter or underscore, 
and avoiding reserved keywords, to ensure that his variable names are valid and meaningful 
within the context of his code.
Incorrect Answers:
B) Constants are variables whose values cannot be changed during program execution and are 
not directly related to choosing names for variables like identifiers.
C) Data types define the type of data that variables can store but are not directly related to 
choosing names for variables like identifiers.
D) Keywords are reserved words in a programming language that have special meanings and 
cannot be used as identifiers but are not directly related to choosing names for variables like 
identifiers.
Question 46 Correct
A programmer needs to optimize a critical routine in a software application to enhance 
performance on a specific hardware platform. Which programming approach is most suitable 
for this task?
Use a high -level programming language like Python.
Your answer is correct
Write the routine in an assembly language.
Develop the routine using JavaScript.
Implement the routine in Java.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 389    
Implement the routine in Java.
Overall explanation
B) Assembly language allows for direct hardware manipulation and provides control over 
processor -specific optimizations. This makes it particularly suitable for enhancing performance 
in critical routines where hardware -level control can lead to significant improvements.
Incorrect Answers:
A) High -level languages like Python provide ease of use and rapid development but cannot 
match the performance optimization capabilities of assembly language due to their higher level 
of abstraction.
C) JavaScript is primarily used for web applications and lacks the capability for deep hardware 
optimization.
D) Java is designed to be platform -independent, which typically prevents it from achieving the 
level of performance optimization possible with assembly language.
Question 47 Correct
Lisa is developing a banking application that allows users to perform various transactions, such 
as deposits, withdrawals, and transfers. What programming concept should Lisa use to define 
actions like depositing money, withdrawing money, and transferring funds within her code?
Properties
Attributes
Your answer is correct
Methods
Objects
Overall explanation
C) Lisa should use methods to define actions like depositing money, withdrawing money, and 
transferring funds within her banking application. Methods are functions associated with 
objects that perform specific actions or behaviors. By defining methods for each transaction 
type, Lisa can implement the logic for performing the respective actions within her application.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Properties are variables associated with objects that represent characteristics or attributes 
and are not used to define actions or behaviors like depositing, withdrawing, or transferring 
funds.
B) Attributes are synonymous with properties in object -oriented programming and represent 
characteristics or features of objects, not actions or behaviors.
D) Objects represent instances of classes or templates that encapsulate data and behavior, 
including properties, attributes, and methods, but are not specifically used to define actions or 
behaviors like depositing, withdrawing, or transferring funds.
Question 48 Incorrect
   Comptia ITF+ Page 390    
Sarah is setting up a new network for her office and needs to assign unique identifiers to each 
device on the network. Which protocol should Sarah use for assigning IP addresses to devices?
UDP
Your answer is incorrect
TCP
Correct answer
DHCP
DNS
Overall explanation
C) Sarah should use the Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) for assigning IP addresses 
to devices on her network. DHCP allows devices to obtain IP addresses automatically from a 
DHCP server, simplifying network management and ensuring that each device has a unique 
identifier.
Incorrect Answers:
A) UDP (User Datagram Protocol) and B) TCP (Transmission Control Protocol) are transport layer 
protocols used for data transmission but do not assign IP addresses to devices.
D) DNS (Domain Name System) is a protocol used for translating domain names to IP addresses 
and vice versa but is not used for assigning IP addresses to devices.
Question 49 Incorrect
Ashley needs to send a legally binding contract to a client electronically. Which technology 
should Ashley use to ensure non -repudiation of the contract?
Your answer is incorrect
Encryption
VPN
Correct answer
Digital signatures
Password protection
Overall explanation
C) Ashley should use digital signatures to ensure non -repudiation of the contract. Digital 
signatures provide a cryptographic method for verifying the authenticity and integrity of a 
document, making it legally binding and preventing the signer from denying their agreement to 
the terms.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Encryption protects the confidentiality of the document but does not provide non -
repudiation, as the recipient could deny their agreement to the terms.
B) VPNs are used to secure network communications but do not provide non -repudiation for 
   Comptia ITF+ Page 391    
B) VPNs are used to secure network communications but do not provide non -repudiation for 
document signing.
D) Password protection restricts access to the document but does not provide non -repudiation, 
as the password could be shared or compromised.
Question 50 Correct
You are working on a confidential document that needs to be sent to a colleague. What is the 
MOST secure way to send the document electronically?
Attach the document directly to an email.
Upload the document to a public cloud storage service and share the link.
Your answer is correct
Use a password -protected file and email it.
Send the document through instant messaging with strong encryption.
Overall explanation
C) This offers a balance between security and convenience. Password protection encrypts the 
document, making it unreadable without the password.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Attaching directly to email offers no encryption and anyone with access to the email could 
potentially view the document.
B) Public cloud storage can be insecure, and anyone with the link could access the document.
D) While some instant messaging platforms offer encryption, it's important to verify the specific 
service and encryption strength used. Email is a more common and accepted method for 
document sharing.
Question 51 Incorrect
Mark is a system administrator responsible for managing file access permissions on a shared 
drive. He receives a request from Sarah, a team leader, to grant read -only access to a 
confidential project folder for her team members. Which type of access control mechanism 
should Mark implement to fulfill Sarah's request?
Mandatory access control (MAC)
Correct answer
Discretionary access control (DAC)
Role -based access control (RBAC)
Your answer is incorrect
Attribute -based access control (ABAC)
Overall explanation
B) Mark should implement discretionary access control (DAC) to fulfill Sarah's request. DAC 
allows owners of resources, such as files or folders, to determine who has access and what type 
of access they have. In this scenario, Sarah, as the owner of the project folder, can grant read -
only access to her team members based on her discretion.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 392    
only access to her team members based on her discretion.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Mandatory access control (MAC) is a more restrictive access control mechanism typically 
used in high -security environments where access decisions are based on system -wide policies 
rather than the discretion of resource owners.
C) Role -based access control (RBAC) assigns permissions based on predefined roles within an 
organization and may not give Sarah the flexibility to grant access to specific individuals based 
on her discretion.
D) Attribute -based access control (ABAC) evaluates a set of attributes associated with the user, 
resource, and environment to make access decisions, but it may not provide the fine -grained 
control needed in this scenario.
Question 52 Correct
Mark is configuring a firewall to restrict access to a company's internal network. He wants to 
allow access to specific services from trusted IP addresses only. Which access control 
mechanism should Mark use to implement these restrictions?
Discretionary access control (DAC)
Role -based access control (RBAC)
Attribute -based access control (ABAC)
Your answer is correct
Rule -based access control (RuBAC)
Overall explanation
D) Mark should use rule -based access control (RuBAC) to configure the firewall rules. RuBAC 
allows administrators to define specific rules based on conditions such as source IP addresses, 
destination ports, and protocols to control access to network resources.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Discretionary access control (DAC) allows resource owners to determine access permissions, 
but it is not typically used for configuring firewall rules.
B) Role -based access control (RBAC) assigns permissions based on predefined roles within an 
organization and is not typically used for configuring network firewall rules.
C) Attribute -based access control (ABAC) evaluates a set of attributes associated with the user, 
resource, and environment to make access decisions, but it is not typically used for configuring 
network firewall rules.
Question 53 Incorrect
Following a critical database corruption, an IT team needs to restore the database from the 
most recent dump. What is the first action they should take?
Your answer is incorrect
Analyze the log files to identify the cause of the corruption.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 393    
Analyze the log files to identify the cause of the corruption.
Immediately start the database dump import to minimize downtime
Correct answer
Verify the integrity of the database dump file before restoring.
Rebuild the database structure manually before importing the dump.
Overall explanation
C) Verifying the integrity of the database dump file before restoration is a critical step to ensure 
that the data is intact and the file is not corrupted. By performing integrity checks, such as 
checksum validation or using database management system tools to verify the dump file, the IT 
team can prevent potential issues during the restoration process. This verification step helps 
maintain data integrity and minimizes the risk of further complications.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Analyzing log files is an essential step in understanding the root cause of the database 
corruption. However, in the immediate aftermath of a critical database corruption, the top 
priority is to restore the database to minimize downtime and ensure business continuity.
B) While minimizing downtime is crucial, blindly starting the database dump import without 
verifying the integrity of the dump file can lead to further complications. If the dump file is 
corrupted or incomplete, it could result in data loss or database inconsistencies. Therefore, it's 
essential to ensure the reliability of the dump file before proceeding with the restoration 
process.
D) Rebuilding the database structure manually is unnecessary if the dump includes the full 
database structure, which is typically the case. It would be an inefficient use of resources and 
could introduce human error. Additionally, it may prolong the downtime unnecessarily.
Question 54 Correct
You are configuring an email client on your computer to send outgoing email messages. Which 
protocol should you configure in the email client's settings to send email messages to your 
email server?
Your answer is correct
SMTP
POP3
IMAP
DNS
Overall explanation
A) SMTP is used by email clients to send outgoing email messages to an email server for 
delivery. When configuring an email client, you need to specify the SMTP server settings to 
enable sending email messages.
Incorrect Answers:
   Comptia ITF+ Page 394    
B) POP3 (Post Office Protocol version 3) is used by email clients to retrieve email messages from 
an email server, not for sending outgoing email messages.
C) IMAP (Internet Message Access Protocol) is used by email clients to access and manage email 
messages stored on an email server but is not used for sending outgoing email messages.
D) DNS (Domain Name System) is a system used to translate domain names into IP addresses 
and is not directly related to the delivery of email messages.
Question 55 Correct
You want to share a folder containing confidential documents with specific team members in 
your organization while restricting access to other users. Which file management feature allows 
you to control who can view, edit, or delete files within the folder?
File type
File extension
Folder/directory
Your answer is correct
File permission
Overall explanation
D) File permission refers to the access rights granted to users or groups for interacting with files 
and folders. By setting file permissions, you can control who can view, edit, or delete files 
within a folder, allowing you to restrict access to confidential documents.
Incorrect Answers:
A) File type refers to the format or category of a file, such as a text document, image, or 
spreadsheet.
B) File extension is a suffix appended to the end of a filename to indicate the file type or 
format.
C) Folder/directory is a container used for organizing files and other folders within a file system 
but does not directly control access to files within the folder.
Question 56 Correct
A financial analyst needs to perform complex queries on a large dataset containing five years of 
market data. What database feature should be prioritized to enhance query speed?
Data warehousing
Transaction logging
Sharding
Your answer is correct
Indexing
Overall explanation
D) Indexing is a database optimization technique that speeds up the retrieval of records in a 
database table, making it ideal for enhancing query speed, especially in databases with large 
volumes of data. Indexes improve the efficiency of data retrieval, directly impacting the 
   Comptia ITF+ Page 395    
volumes of data. Indexes improve the efficiency of data retrieval, directly impacting the 
performance of complex queries.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Data warehousing is useful for managing large sets of historical data but does not directly 
impact the speed of individual queries.
B) Transaction logging is crucial for data integrity and recovery but does not enhance the speed 
of query processing.
C) Sharding distributes data across multiple servers, which can help performance at scale but is 
more complex to manage than indexing.
Question 57 Incorrect
Your organization's website experiences a sudden increase in traffic due to a viral marketing 
campaign. However, the website becomes slow and unresponsive, affecting user experience. 
Which strategy should you implement to ensure the website remains available and responsive 
during traffic spikes?
Redundant servers
Network optimization
Correct answer
Scalable infrastructure
Your answer is incorrect
Load testing
Overall explanation
C) Implementing a scalable infrastructure allows the website to dynamically allocate additional 
resources, such as servers and bandwidth, to accommodate increased traffic during spikes. This 
ensures that the website remains available and responsive, even during periods of high 
demand.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Redundant servers provide failover capabilities to minimize downtime in the event of 
hardware failures but do not directly address scalability and responsiveness during traffic 
spikes.
B) Network optimization improves network performance and efficiency but may not be 
sufficient to handle sudden increases in website traffic.
D) Load testing involves assessing the performance and reliability of a system under normal and 
anticipated peak load conditions but does not directly address scalability during unexpected 
traffic spikes.
Question 58 Incorrect
You are tasked with making structural changes to a table in your organization's database. Which 
SQL command should you use to modify the structure of the table by adding or removing 
columns?
   Comptia ITF+ Page 396    
columns?
Correct answer
ALTER TABLE
Your answer is incorrect
UPDATE TABLE
MODIFY TABLE
CHANGE TABLE
Overall explanation
A) The ALTER TABLE command in SQL is used to modify the structure of a table, such as adding, 
removing, or modifying columns. It allows you to make structural changes to the table schema.
Incorrect Answers:
B) The UPDATE command in SQL is indeed used to modify existing records within a table, not 
the structure of the table itself. It allows you to change the values of one or more columns in 
existing rows based on specified conditions.
C) While the idea of "modifying" a table is similar to what we want to achieve, there's no direct 
SQL command named MODIFY TABLE for altering the structure of a table. ALTER TABLE is the 
standard command for such operations.
D) There's no SQL command named CHANGE TABLE for altering the structure of a table. This 
option might sound plausible due to its resemblance to the concept of changing the table 
structure, but ALTER TABLE is the correct command for this task in SQL.
Question 59 Incorrect
You are concerned about malware infections and unauthorized access to your computer's files 
and resources. Which type of firewall should you configure to prevent malicious software from 
accessing your computer's network services?
Your answer is incorrect
Network -based firewall
Hardware firewall
Correct answer
Host -based firewall
Application firewall
Overall explanation
C) Host -based firewalls operate at the individual computer level, providing a layer of defense 
directly on the device itself. By configuring a host -based firewall, you're essentially setting up a 
barrier around your computer's network services, allowing you to control which incoming and 
outgoing connections are permitted based on predefined rules.
Incorrect Answers:
   Comptia ITF+ Page 397    
A) network -based firewalls are positioned at the network perimeter, often within routers or 
switches, and are responsible for monitoring and filtering traffic as it enters or exits the 
network. While these firewalls are crucial for protecting against external threats, they operate 
at a higher level than individual computers, focusing on traffic flowing across the entire 
network rather than specific devices.
B) Hardware firewall is a dedicated firewall device installed between the internal network and 
the internet to filter network traffic, but it is not installed on individual computers.
D) Application firewall is a type of firewall that monitors and controls network traffic specific to 
individual applications or services, not at the host level.
Question 60 Correct
You recently upgraded your computer's operating system to the latest version, but you 
encounter issues with some hardware components not functioning correctly. Which software 
component should you update to ensure compatibility and proper functionality of the 
hardware?
Your answer is correct
Device driver
Firmware
Operating system
Application software
Overall explanation
A) Device drivers are software components that enable communication between the operating 
system and hardware devices. Updating device drivers ensures compatibility and proper 
functionality of hardware components with the operating system.
Incorrect Answers:
B) Firmware is a type of software embedded into hardware devices that provides low -level 
control over the device's functionality but does not directly address compatibility with the 
operating system.
C) The operating system manages the computer's resources and provides a user interface but 
does not directly address compatibility with individual hardware devices.
D) Application software refers to programs designed to perform specific tasks for users but 
does not directly address compatibility with hardware devices.
Question 61 Incorrect
You are managing a wireless network for a coffee shop, and you want to allow customers to 
connect to the network while still maintaining some level of security. Would implementing MAC 
address filtering be an appropriate solution in this scenario? Why or why not?
Yes, because MAC address filtering can prevent unauthorized devices from accessing the 
network.
Correct answer
No, because customers' devices would need to be added to the allowed list, which could be 
impractical.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 398    
impractical.
Yes, because MAC address filtering is more secure than using a wireless encryption protocol.
Your answer is incorrect
No, because MAC address filtering can be easily bypassed by experienced hackers.
Overall explanation
B) In a coffee shop setting where customers bring their own devices, it would be impractical to 
maintain an allowed list of MAC addresses for every customer's device. MAC address filtering 
works best in controlled environments with a limited number of known devices, but it becomes 
challenging and cumbersome in scenarios with constantly changing devices.
Incorrect Answers:
A) While MAC address filtering can prevent unauthorized access, it is not a practical solution for 
a coffee shop with many customers and ever -changing devices.
C) MAC address filtering and wireless encryption protocols serve different purposes and cannot 
be directly compared in terms of security. Both can be implemented together for better overall 
security.
D) While MAC address filtering can be bypassed by experienced hackers, this alone does not 
make it an appropriate solution for a coffee shop environment.
Question 62 Correct
An IT technician is setting up a new office. They need to connect desktop computers to the local 
area network and phones to the telephone line. Which connector should be used for the 
desktop computers and which for the phones?
RJ-11 for both desktop computers and phones.
Your answer is correct
RJ-45 for desktop computers, RJ -11 for phones.
RJ-45 for both desktop computers and phones.
RJ-11 for desktop computers, RJ -45 for phones.
Overall explanation
B) RJ -45 connectors are used for Ethernet cables, which are suitable for networking and 
connecting desktop computers to a LAN. RJ -11 connectors are used for telephone cables, which 
are suitable for connecting phones to telephone lines.
Incorrect Answers:
A) RJ -11 connectors are not suitable for networking desktop computers as they support fewer 
data lines and are typically used for telephone connections.
C) RJ -45 connectors are not typically used for standard telephone connections as they are larger 
and designed for networking.
D) RJ -11 is not suitable for networking desktop computers due to its limited bandwidth and 
number of conductors.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 399    
number of conductors.
Question 63 Correct
You are developing a new software application that incorporates a unique algorithm you 
created. To prevent others from using your algorithm without permission, what type of 
intellectual property protection should you consider?
Trademark
Copyright
Your answer is correct
Patent
Trade secret
Overall explanation
C) Patents protect inventions, including algorithms and functional aspects of technology. By 
obtaining a patent for your unique algorithm, you can prevent others from using or 
implementing it without your permission, providing legal protection for your intellectual 
property.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Trademarks protect brand names, logos, and other distinctive marks, but they do not cover 
algorithms or functional aspects of technology.
B) Copyright protects creative works like software code, but it does not directly cover the 
functional aspects of algorithms or inventions.
D) Trade secrets protect confidential information, but once the algorithm is incorporated into a 
publicly available software application, it can no longer be considered a trade secret.
Question 64 Incorrect
You are tasked with installing a new software application on multiple computers in your 
organization. Before proceeding, what should be your first step to ensure a smooth installation 
process
Start installing the software on all computers simultaneously
Correct answer
Review the software's system requirements and compatibility
Uninstall any existing versions of the software
Your answer is incorrect
Create a backup of all data on the computers
Overall explanation
B) Before installing any software, it is essential to review the software's system requirements 
and compatibility with the target computers. This includes checking the minimum hardware 
specifications, operating system versions, and any other dependencies or prerequisites. 
Ensuring compatibility helps prevent installation issues and potential conflicts with existing 
software or hardware.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 400    
Incorrect Answers:
A) Starting installations on all computers simultaneously without checking compatibility can 
lead to failures and complications if some computers do not meet the requirements.
C) Uninstalling existing versions should typically be done after ensuring compatibility and 
following the software vendor's instructions.
D) Creating a backup is a good practice, but it should not be the first step before verifying 
compatibility and system requirements.
Question 65 Correct
Your organization needs to securely transmit sensitive financial data to a partner company over 
the internet. Which security measure should be implemented to protect the data in transit?
Enable full disk encryption on all company computers
Your answer is correct
Use a secure file transfer protocol like SFTP or HTTPS
Implement access controls on the internal network
Encrypt the data at rest on the company's servers
Overall explanation
B) To protect data in transit during transmission over a network like the internet, it is essential 
to use secure protocols such as SFTP (Secure File Transfer Protocol) or HTTPS (Hypertext 
Transfer Protocol Secure). These protocols encrypt the data in transit, preventing unauthorized 
access and ensuring the confidentiality and integrity of the transmitted data.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Full disk encryption protects data at rest on the computer's storage devices but does not 
directly secure data in transit during transmission.
C) Access controls on the internal network help restrict unauthorized access within the 
organization but do not provide security for data in transit over external networks like the 
internet.
D) Encrypting data at rest on the company's servers protects the stored data but does not 
secure the data during transmission to the partner company.
Question 66 Incorrect
You are responsible for managing a file server in your organization. The server has a limited 
amount of storage space, and you need to implement measures to ensure efficient use of the 
available space. Which approach would be most appropriate in this scenario?
Your answer is incorrect
Enable file compression on the server
Correct answer
Impose strict file naming rules
Enable journaling on the server
   Comptia ITF+ Page 401    
Enable journaling on the server
Implement automated file archiving based on access frequency and age
Overall explanation
B) When dealing with limited storage space, implementing strict file naming rules can help 
prevent file duplication and reduce the overall storage requirements. By enforcing naming 
conventions and prohibiting duplicate file names, you can ensure efficient use of the available 
storage space on the server.
Incorrect Answers:
A) File compression can reduce the size of individual files, but it does not directly address the 
issue of file duplication or efficient use of storage space.
C) Journaling tracks changes made to files but does not contribute to efficient storage 
utilization or prevent file duplication.
D) Implementing automated file archiving based on access frequency and age can optimize 
storage space by moving less frequently accessed or older files to secondary storage, but it does 
not directly prevent file duplication.
Question 67 Correct
A hospital wants to ensure that its patient records database is accessible only to authorized 
personnel. What security measure is most effective in controlling database access?
Store the database on an isolated network.
Your answer is correct
Implement role -based access control (RBAC).
Use a single administrator account for database access.
Encrypt all data within the database.
Overall explanation
B) Implementing role -based access control (RBAC) is an effective way to ensure that only 
authorized personnel have access to specific parts of the patient records database based on 
their role within the hospital. RBAC helps in enforcing security policies that restrict data access 
to only those who need it to perform their job functions.
Incorrect Answers:
A) While isolating the database network can add a layer of security, it does not control access 
within the system based on user roles.
C) Using a single administrator account lacks granularity and increases risk because it does not 
differentiate access based on user roles.
D) Encrypting data is crucial for protecting data at rest, but it does not manage user access or 
permissions within the database.
Question 68 Incorrect
You are designing a program that searches for a specific element within an array. Which type of 
   Comptia ITF+ Page 402    
You are designing a program that searches for a specific element within an array. Which type of 
logic component would you use to iterate through each element in the array until finding the 
desired element?
Your answer is incorrect
Branching
Correct answer
Looping
Boolean logic
Arithmetic logic
Overall explanation
B) Looping is the process of repeating a set of instructions until a specific condition is met. In 
this scenario, you would use looping to iterate through each element in the array until finding 
the desired element.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Branching is used for making decisions within a program based on certain conditions, which 
is not necessary for iterating through elements in an array.
C) Boolean logic involves evaluating conditions that result in either true or false outcomes, 
which may be utilized within looping or branching but is not the primary component for 
iterating through elements in an array.
D) Arithmetic logic is used for performing mathematical operations, such as addition and 
subtraction, which is not directly related to iterating through elements in an array.
Question 69 Correct
A growing e -commerce startup aims to streamline its operations by centralizing customer 
information, including purchase history, contact details, and preferences. Which type of 
business software would be most suitable for the company's goal of efficiently storing, 
retrieving, and analyzing customer data in a structured manner?
Your answer is correct
Database software
Project management software
Business -specific applications
Accounting software
Overall explanation
A) Database software is specifically designed to manage structured data efficiently, making it 
ideal for organizing and analyzing customer information in a centralized manner.
Incorrect Answers:
B) Project management software focuses on planning, scheduling, and tracking project tasks 
and resources, which is not directly related to managing customer data.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 403    
and resources, which is not directly related to managing customer data.
C) Business -specific applications cater to specific business needs or industries but may not offer 
the comprehensive data management features required for efficiently handling customer 
information.
D) Accounting software is used for managing financial transactions and generating reports, 
which is distinct from organizing and analyzing customer data.
Question 70 Correct
A law firm seeks software to streamline its case management processes, including document 
organization, client communication, and court filings. Which type of business software would 
be most suitable for addressing the law firm's specific requirements?
Database software
Project management software
Your answer is correct
Business -specific applications
Accounting software
Overall explanation
C) Business -specific applications tailored to the legal industry offer features such as document 
management, client communication, and case tracking, making them ideal for streamlining case 
management processes in law firms.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Database software manages structured data efficiently but does not provide the specialized 
features required for case management processes in law firms.
B) Project management software focuses on planning and tracking project tasks and resources, 
which is not directly related to case management in law firms.
D) Accounting software is used for financial transactions and reporting, which is distinct from 
managing case -related documents and client communication in law firms.
Question 71 Correct
A data analyst needs to generate custom reports and visualizations based on the company's 
sales data stored in the database. Which type of database access method would the analyst 
most likely use to interact with the database using a user -friendly interface or reporting tool?
Direct/manual access
Programmatic access
Your answer is correct
User interface/utility access
Query/report builders
Overall explanation
C) User interface/utility access involves using graphical user interfaces (GUI) or utility programs 
provided by the DBMS, such as reporting tools or dashboard builders, to interact with the 
   Comptia ITF+ Page 404    
provided by the DBMS, such as reporting tools or dashboard builders, to interact with the 
database in a user -friendly manner.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Direct/manual access involves directly interacting with the database using tools such as SQL 
command -line interfaces or database management systems (DBMS), which may not provide the 
same level of user -friendliness as user interface/utility access.
B) Programmatic access involves using programming languages or frameworks to interact with 
the database programmatically through code, which may not be as user -friendly for generating 
custom reports and visualizations.
D) Query/report builders are tools provided by the DBMS to help users construct SQL queries or 
generate reports without writing code, which may involve a level of user -friendliness similar to 
user interface/utility access but may not provide the same level of customization.
Question 72 Correct
You are working on a critical project that involves editing and updating important documents. 
To ensure data integrity and prevent accidental data loss, which feature should you enable in 
your word processing software?
Your answer is correct
Journaling
Version control
Spell check
Password protection
Overall explanation
A) Journaling is a feature in many word processing applications that records all the changes 
made to a document during an editing session. This feature allows you to track the history of 
changes, revert to previous versions if needed, and recover from accidental data loss or file 
corruption. Enabling journaling is a recommended practice when working with critical 
documents to ensure data integrity.
Incorrect Answers:
B) Version control is a useful feature, but it is typically associated with software development 
and collaborative editing environments, rather than individual word processing applications.
C) Spell check is a proofreading tool that helps identify spelling errors, but it does not 
contribute to data integrity or prevent accidental data loss.
D) Password protection can help restrict access to sensitive documents, but it does not provide 
a mechanism for tracking changes or recovering from data loss.
Question 73 Incorrect
A user is searching for software updates for their smartphone's operating system. Which source 
should the user prioritize to ensure the updates are legitimate and compatible with their 
device?
   Comptia ITF+ Page 405    
device?
Correct answer
OEM website
Third -party software download website
Online auction website
Your answer is incorrect
App store associated with the device's operating system
Overall explanation
A) Prioritizing updates from the OEM website ensures that the updates are genuine, officially 
released by the device manufacturer, and tailored for compatibility with the specific device 
model.
Incorrect Answers:
B) Third -party software download websites may offer unauthorized or modified versions of 
operating system updates, which can compromise device security and functionality.
C) Online auction websites are not reliable sources for software updates and may expose users 
to counterfeit or unofficial software.
D) App stores associated with the device's operating system, such as the Google Play Store or 
Apple App Store, are legitimate sources for software updates, but OEM websites provide direct 
access to official updates released by the device manufacturer.
Question 74 Correct
A user purchases a new antivirus software subscription online and receives an email 
confirmation containing a product key. What is the primary purpose of the product key 
provided in the email?
To renew the antivirus software subscription automatically
Your answer is correct
To activate and validate the user's license for the antivirus software
To register the user for software updates and patches
To access customer support for technical assistance
Overall explanation
B) The primary purpose of the product key provided in the email is to activate and validate the 
user's license for the antivirus software, allowing them to use the software's features and 
receive updates during the subscription period.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Product keys typically do not automatically renew software subscriptions; users usually need 
to manually renew their subscriptions or set up auto -renewal options separately.
C) While product keys may be used to register software for updates, their primary purpose is to 
   Comptia ITF+ Page 406    
C) While product keys may be used to register software for updates, their primary purpose is to 
activate and validate the software license.
D) Product keys are not used to access customer support directly; users typically need to 
contact customer support separately for technical assistance.
Question 75 Correct
A system administrator receives multiple service tickets reporting various technical issues, 
including network connectivity issues, software crashes, and printer malfunctions. Which issue 
should the administrator prioritize for immediate resolution?
Software updates for non -critical applications
Software crashes occurring on individual computers
Printer malfunctions affecting a single department
Your answer is correct
Network connectivity issues affecting multiple users
Overall explanation
D) Network connectivity issues affecting multiple users should be prioritized for immediate 
resolution as they have the potential to disrupt business operations for a larger number of 
users compared to individual software crashes or printer malfunctions.
Incorrect Answers:
A) Software updates for non -critical applications can be scheduled for later installation and do 
not require immediate resolution compared to network connectivity issues affecting multiple 
users.
B) Software crashes occurring on individual computers may impact productivity, but they 
typically affect fewer users and can be addressed after resolving network connectivity issues.
C) Printer malfunctions affecting a single department may be important, but they are localized 
issues that can be addressed after resolving network connectivity issues affecting multiple 
users. 
   Comptia ITF+ Page 407    
1. Computer Operating Systems
Definition : A computer OS provides a common environment for software execution, linking users 
with hardware.•
Types :
Workstation, Server, Mobile, Embedded (Firmware), Hypervisor.••
Key Functions :
HAL (Hardware Abstraction Layer), Drivers, Logging/Auditing, Permissions/Access Control, 
Multitasking, Network Services.••
Examples :
Microsoft Windows: Uses NTFS for file management, Task Manager for process 
management.•
Apple macOS: Uses HFS+/APFS file systems, Activity Monitor for process management.•
GNU Linux: Uses EXT file systems, System Monitor for processes.••
2. Applications and Software
General Concepts :
Single -Platform Software : Runs on a single OS (e.g., Windows -only apps). •
Cross -Platform Software : Runs on multiple platforms (e.g., Linux, macOS). •
Licensing Types : Open Source (e.g., MIT, GNU GPL), Proprietary. ••
Business Software :
Project Management (e.g., SmartSheet), Accounting Software (e.g., QuickBooks).•
Application Delivery Models : Locally Installed, Cloud Hosted. ••
Programming Concepts :
Languages : Interpreted (e.g., Python), Compiled (e.g., C++), Query Languages (e.g., SQL). •
Key Elements : Variables, Functions, Loops, Arrays. ••
3. Database Fundamentals
What is a Database? : A structured repository of information for quick access. •
Database Capabilities : Input data, output data (querying), data persistence. •
Relational Database Design :
Primary Key : Uniquely identifies records in a table. •
Foreign Key : Links records between tables. ••
SQL Command Examples :
Create a Table : CREATE TABLE USStates (state_name NVARCHAR(50), 
state_abr NCHAR(2));•
Query Data : SELECT * FROM USStates ORDER BY state_name; ••
4. Networking Concepts
OSI Model :
Layers 1 to 7: Physical, Data -Link, Network, Transport, Session, Presentation, Application. •
Local Devices : Switches, access points. •
Remote Devices : Routers, firewalls. ••
Network Types :
Wired : Ethernet (RJ -45). •
Wireless : Wi-Fi standards (802.11a/b/g/n/ac), Bluetooth, NFC. ••
Security Practices :
Wireless Security : WPA2 for highest encryption. •
Captive Portals : Used in public Wi -Fi for user authentication. ••
5. Security Concepts
Encryption :
Plain Text vs. Cipher Text : Plain text is human -readable; cipher text is encrypted. ••Study Guide
Friday, October 11, 2024 2:25 PM
   Comptia ITF+ Page 408    
Plain Text vs. Cipher Text : Plain text is human -readable; cipher text is encrypted. •
Encryption Methods : Use keys/algorithms to scramble and unscramble messages. •
Behavioral Security :
Privacy Concerns : Important when using social networking, email, file -sharing, and instant 
messaging.•
Password Management : Importance of password expiration, password history, and using 
password managers.••
Wireless Network Security :
WPA2 : The most secure Wi -Fi encryption standard. •
Captive Portals : Ensures users agree to terms before accessing a network. ••
6. Hardware and Infrastructure
CPU : The brain of the computer, available in 32 -bit and 64 -bit architectures. •
Storage Devices : SSDs (Solid State Drives) vs. HDDs (Hard Disk Drives), volatile (e.g., RAM) and 
non-volatile memory (e.g., SSDs).•
Peripheral Devices : USB, FireWire, Thunderbolt for connectivity; drivers for installation and 
management.•
Display Technologies : VGA, HDMI, DisplayPort for video output. •
7. Software Development Concepts
Types of Programming Languages :
Interpreted Languages : JavaScript, Python. •
Compiled Languages : C++, Rust. •
Query Languages : SQL for database queries. ••
Organizational Techniques :
Flowcharts : Useful for visualizing logic before coding. •
Pseudocode : Simplifies the logic of the code before translating to a specific programming 
language.••
   Comptia ITF+ Page 409    
Question #1 of 75 QuestionId #1257377
Which of the following is the fastest throughput unit?
A)Mbps
B)Kbps
C)bps
D)Gbps
Explanation
The fastest throughput listed is gigabits per second (Gbps). bps represents the number of bits (0 or 1) that are 
transmitted per second. One gigabit is 1,073.741,821 (or one billion) bits.
Throughput is commonly abbreviated as follows, from slowest to fastest:
bits per second bps
bytes per second Bps
kilobits per second Kbps
kilobytes per second KBps
megabits per second Mbps
megabytes per second MBps
gigabits per second Gbps
One Mbps would represent 1,048,576 (or one million) bits transmitted per second.
One Kbps would represent 1,024 (or one thousand) bits transmitted per second.
The following table illustrates the relationship between the numbers in bytes (for example, 1,024 bytes is 1 
kilobyte):
1,024 Kilo Thousand
1,048,576 Mega Million 1,024 Kilos
1,073,741,824 Giga Billion 1,024 Megas
1,099,511,627,776 Tera Trillion 1,024 Gigas
1,125,899.906.842.620 Peta Quadrillion 1,024 Teras
Objective:
IT Concepts and Terminology
Sub-Objective:
Compare and contrast common units of measure.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 6: Common Units of Measure: 
Storage, Throughput, and Speed:
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
Question #2 of 75 QuestionId #1577502
Which of the following is true about a foreign key?
A)A foreign key is required.
B)A foreign key must be unique.
C)A foreign key is a row.
D)A foreign key allows you to find associated data in a master or parent table.
Explanation
A foreign key allows you to find associated data in a master or parent table.
Foreign keys are not required; they are optional. Foreign keys do not need to be unique.
Foreign keys are a column in a table, not an entire row.Exam results 2
Friday, October 11, 2024 1:13 PM
   Comptia ITF+ Page 410    
In the following exhibit, if you were working in the Contact table and wanted to know the FirstName and 
LastName for CustID 104, you would use the CustID foreign key in Contact, match it to the primary key CustID 
in the Customer table, and find out that the customer is Drew Lakeman.
Objective:
Database Fundamentals
Sub-Objective:
Compare and contrast various database structures.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 26: Compare and Contrast Various 
Database Structures, Relational Databases
Previous
Next
Go to Summary
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
Question #3 of 75 QuestionId #1577514
When using the Internet, which of the following areas should concern you about your expectation of privacy? 
(Choose all that apply.)
A)When using social networking sites
B)When using email
C)When using file sharing applications
D)While instant messaging
Explanation
When using the Internet, you should be concerned about your expectation of privacy when using social 
networking sites, when using email, when using file sharing applications, and while instant messaging.
Social networking sites own your data. Even when you have an account, anything you post on a social 
networking site is their property. Even when you delete your post, that post remains on the social networking 
site’s server.
Email privacy can be divided into two areas: the routing information and the content. The routing 
information (the “From” address, the outgoing mail server, the “To” address, and the incoming mail server) 
must be public in order to deliver the message. The content (or body of the email and attachments) should 
have a reasonable expectation of privacy until it is delivered to the recipient. The sender loses all control over 
the content when it is delivered, and the recipient may share it with whomever they please. With that said, 
users of corporate networks forfeit their right to privacy when they have to agree to an Acceptable Use Policy 
(AUP), often including a statement that the user’s email is monitored. Users of free public Wi -Fi at coffee 
shops, airports, and hotels must often first log onto a captive portal and agree to the location’s AUP before 
proceeding. The following exhibit shows a captive portal.
File sharing applications may be a convenient method to download software, music, and video, but there is a 
significant danger of malware infection and loss of confidential information. You should not have any 
expectation of privacy when using file sharing applications.
Instant messaging can have significant privacy issues. The instant messages are often stored on the provider’s 
server or on the local computer. Also, a recipient may decide to save a copy (through a screen shot) to use 
later, particularly if the content can embarrass the sender or if there is financial gain if the material is 
released to certain publishers.
Objective:
Security
Sub-Objective:
Summarize behavioral security concepts.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 30: Summarize Behavioral Security 
Concepts
Previous
Next
   Comptia ITF+ Page 411    
Next
Go to Summary
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
Question #4 of 75 QuestionId #1577475
Word processing software belongs to which one of the categories below?
A)Collaboration software
B)Business software
C)Operating system software
D)Productivity software
Explanation
Productivity software includes word processing software, spreadsheet software, presentation software, web 
browsers, and visual diagramming software.
Word processing software allows the user to create and format sophisticated documents. An application such 
as Notepad in Windows or vi in Linux will allow you to create a simple text file. Word processing software, 
such as Microsoft Word, Corel Wordperfect, Open Office Writer, LibreOffice Writer, and Apple Pages, allows 
you to paginate, create columns, and add images, headers and footers, references, citations, and footnotes. 
Google Docs is a word processing application that can be accessed over the Internet and is device -
independent. The following exhibit shows the ribbon interface used to launch commands in the desktop 
version of Microsoft Word 2016.
Other types of productivity software include:
Presentation software allows you to convey information in a slide -show format. You can add text, 
images, animations, sound, video, hyperlinks, and more. They can be saved for future presentation or 
saved to another format such as PDF. Applications include Microsoft PowerPoint, OpenOffice Impress, 
Apple Keynote, and Google Slides. The following exhibit shows Google Slides with the Momentum 
theme applied:•
A web browser is how you typically communicate with a web page or a website. You enter a Uniform 
Resource Locator (URL) commonly known as a web address. The web browser locates the server for 
that address, retrieves the hypertext markup language (HTML) file for that page, decodes it, and 
displays it in the browser. Common browsers are Google Chrome, Microsoft Edge, Microsoft Internet 
Explorer (older), Mozilla Firefox, Opera, and Safari.•
Visual diagramming software allows you to create flowcharts for applications and mockups of a 
physical network, organizational chart, or process flow. Popular visual diagramming tools include 
Microsoft Visio, Cinergix Creately, and Gliffy. The following exhibit shows a Microsoft Visio network 
diagram:•
Collaboration software includes email clients, conferencing software, instant messaging software, online 
workspaces, and document sharing.
Business software includes database software, project management software, business -specific applications, 
and accounting software.
Operating system software, including Microsoft Windows, Mac OSX, Linux, iOS, and Android, provide the 
connection between the device hardware and software applications described above.
Objective:
Applications and Software
Sub-Objective:
Explain the purpose and proper use of software.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 18: Purpose and Proper Use of 
Software, Productivity Software
Previous
Next
Go to Summary
Offline QBank
   Comptia ITF+ Page 412    
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
Question #5 of 75 QuestionId #1257364
You are calculating the GrossPay amount by multiplying the HoursWorked field x the HourlyRate field. Which 
data type would you use for the GrossPay, HoursWorked, and HourlyRate fields?
A)integer
B)Boolean
C)ASCII
D)float
Explanation
You would use the float data type for the GrossPay, HoursWorked and HourlyRate fields.
The float data type contains multiple numerical digits and a decimal point. It is designed for numbers that 
cannot (or might not) be expressed as whole numbers. In this example, an HourlyRate of $18.75 and 
HoursWorked equal to 15.5 would calculate to a GrossPay of $290.625, which you would round to $290.63.
The integer data type contains whole numbers only. Integers do not contain any partial numbers (fractions). 
Examples of integers include 104 (the number of keys on a keyboard), 2 (the number of wheels on a 
motorcycle), 30 (the number days in June), and 12 (the number of items in a dozen).
The Boolean data type is used when you need to compare two or more values and store the result of the 
comparison as either true (1) or false (0). Often, the comparison is based on comparing one value with 
another value, with an = sign between the values. Here are some basic examples:
Red=White would be false (0)•
1+1=2 would be true (1)•
Password1 (with a value of “GoodP@ssw0rd”)=Password2 (with a value of “BadP@ssrw0rd”) would be 
false (0)•
You can combine Boolean types so that multiple conditions must be met for the result to be true (1). Using 
AND would require all conditions to be met, OR would require only one condition to be met, and NOT would 
require that neither condition be met. Here are some examples:
Username=”dsmith” AND password=”ABC123”. If both conditions are met, the result would be true (1).•
Month=”December” OR Month=”January”. If the Month is either December or January, the result 
would be true (1).•
EducatorType=”Elementary” NOT EducatorType=“Pre -k” would be true (1) if the EducatorType was not 
Pre-k and was Elementary.•
American Standard Code for Information Interchange (ASCII) is not a data type but a set of characters. The 
ASCII character set is limited to 97 printable characters: the upper -and lowercase English alphabet (a -z and 
A-Z), punctuation marks, and the numbers 0 -9. The American National Standards Institute (ANSI) expanded 
the ASCII character set to 255 characters, including the cent symbol ¢.
Objective:
IT Concepts and Terminology
Sub-Objective:
Compare and contrast fundamental data types and their characteristics.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 3: Compare and Contrast 
Fundamental Data Types and Their Characteristics, Numbers
Previous
Next
Go to Summary
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
Question #6 of 75 QuestionId #1257463
What type of language would you use to write a device driver for Linux?
A)Scripted
B)Scripting
   Comptia ITF+ Page 413    
B)Scripting
C)Query
D)Assembly
Explanation
You would use an assembly language to write a device driver for Linux. Assembly languages differ from the 
other languages in that programs are written for specific processors or processor types. Assembly language is 
often used to write operating -system specific drivers.
Scripted languages are inserted into and interpreted by another language. As an example, JavaScript can be 
inserted into a HTML page and then interpreted by the browser.
Scripting languages are types of interpreted languages that can be executed without the need to be compiled 
(converted to binary) first. It allows for simplified execution of tasks, such as the steps required to onboard a 
new employee. Languages such as Perl, PHP, and Python are examples of server -side scripting languages.
Query languages allow you to extract information from a database. The most common query language is SQL, 
used for relational databases. XQuery is used for data extraction in XML documents. An example of an SQL 
statement is:
SELECT LastName, FirstName from EmployeeTable where EmployeeID=123456789
Objective:
Software Development Concepts
Sub-Objective:
Compare and contrast programming language categories.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 22: Compare and Contrast 
Programming Language Categories, Assembly Language
Previous
Next
Go to Summary
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
Question #7 of 75 QuestionId #1257445
Which kind of application architecture includes making a purchase on the Internet?
A)One-tier
B)Two -tier
C)Three -tier
D)n-tier
Explanation
Making a purchase on the Internet is an example of n -tier application architecture. There might be several 
layers beyond three -tier:
The web browser is the Presentation layer.•
The checkout cart is another layer.•
Customer information is controlled by another layer.•
Credit card entry and verification is another layer.•
Shipping is another layer.•
Tiers are separated into layers. The presentation layer (also called the client layer) is how the application 
appears to the user and how the user interacts with the application. The logic or programming layer uses 
what is generated in the presentation layer to create data. Data is the information that is used by the 
application.
With a one -tier application, the presentation, logic, and data layers are all in the same location. Examples 
include a locally installed application or a game on a smartphone that is played without a cellular or Wi -Fi 
connection.
The two -tier application architecture model can be represented by a local network -hosted application. Two -
tier means two devices are needed, such as a local computer and a network server, to associate the user 
interface with the application’s programming and data.
Three -tier applications have each tier on a separate device. An example of this is Google Docs, where the 
presentation layer is on a user device such as a smartphone or computer, the logic layer is the application 
   Comptia ITF+ Page 414    
presentation layer is on a user device such as a smartphone or computer, the logic layer is the application 
running from the Google Docs site, and the data layer contains the documents created and stored in Google 
Drive.
Objective:
Applications and Software
Sub-Objective:
Explain methods of application architecture and delivery models.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 19: Getting Apps From Source to 
Your Device, Application Architecture Models
Previous
Next
Go to Summary
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
Question #8 of 75 QuestionId #1257447
The client -server model is an example of which type of architecture model?
A)One-tier
B)Three -tier
C)N-tier
D)Two -tier
Explanation
Client -server is an example of a two -tier architecture model. In a two -tier model, the presentation tier runs 
on one computer (in this case, the client) while the programming and data run on another computer (in this 
case, a server).
In a one -tier system, the presentation, logic, and data layers all run on the same computer. A game app that 
you download onto your phone and can use while off -line is an example of a one -tier system.
A three -tier system divides the responsibility of the presentation layer, the programming layer, and the data 
layer between separate machines. Microsoft OneDrive is an example of a three -tier architecture.
An n -tier system adds another layer of service, such as a database. The nrepresents a variable.
Objective:
Applications and Software
Sub-Objective:
Explain methods of application architecture and delivery models.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 17: Getting Apps From Source to 
Your Device: Application Architecture Models
Previous
Next
Go to Summary
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
Question #9 of 75 QuestionId #1577470
Which of the following file systems support compression? (Choose two.)
A)Ext4
B)NTFS
C)FAT32
D)HFS+
   Comptia ITF+ Page 415    
D)HFS+
Explanation
NTFS and HFS+ file systems support compression. Neither Ext4 nor FAT32 support compression.
With Ext4 and FAT32, a separate application would need to be used, such as gzip or pkzip, respectively, to 
compress files.
Compression is a way to reduce the amount of space necessary to store a file, allowing a drive to store more 
data. One way to look at compression is that it removes excess space in the file, much like vacuum suction 
reduces the amount of storage needed for a bag. Text files and documents are greatly reduced through 
compression, whereas multimedia files, such as music, video, and images, do not benefit as much.
There are many file features. Not all features are available in all file systems. Some features include:
Encryption scrambles the content of a file, folder, or drive so that it is unreadable to an unauthorized 
user. FAT32 uses a separate application, but encryption is supported by Ext4, NTFS, and HFS+. 
Encrypted files use a recovery key, similar to a password, to allow a user to open the file.•
Permissions are assigned to folders and files, and groups and users are granted those permissions. In 
the NTFS file system, the permissions are Full Control, Modify, Read and Execute, List Folder Contents, 
Read, and Write. When a permission is assigned to a folder and subsequently a subfolder is added to 
that folder, the subfolder inherits the permissions from the parent folder. A file inherits the 
permissions from the folder it is in. A subfolder, however, can be configured to NOT inherit permissions 
from its parent folder, shown for Sub Folder 1 in the graphic.•
Journaling is a feature that monitors changes that are occurring or about to occur to a drive. If a system 
crash occurs or the power goes out during a major update, journaling would make it much easier to 
recover the drive. NTFS, HFS+, and Ext4 support journaling.•
Every file system has limitations. They include the size of the volume, the largest file size, number of files per 
volume, and number of files per folder. The following exhibit shows the file size limits of several file systems.
File systems have naming rules, often called naming conventions. Files have a name (preferably describing 
the contents), followed by a dot, followed by an extension. The extension tells the operating system what 
type of file it is and uses the application specified (either by default or by user settings) to open it.
Originally, MS -DOS used a system called “8.3”. The first eight characters of the file name was used to name 
the file, then a dot, and the last three characters was an extension as described above. Beginning with 
Windows 95, FAT32 and NTFS allow for 255 characters in the file name. This allows for the file name to more 
accurately describe the contents. There are some limitations as to the characters that can be used in a file 
name. Certain characters, such as < > : “/ \| ? *, are reserved and cannot be used in a file name.
HFS+ can use 255 characters in the file name with no reserved characters.
Ext4 is unique in that the characters in file names are case sensitive. Ext4 can use 255 characters, but the only 
special characters supported are periods and underscores.
Objective:
Applications and Software
Sub-Objective:
Compare and contrast components of an operating system.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 17: Operating Systems 101: 
Features, Processes, UI, and Management, Features
Previous
Next
Go to Summary
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
Question #10 of 75 QuestionId #1257376
Which of the following represents one bit? (Choose all that apply.)
A)01000001
B)F3
C)0
D)PB
   Comptia ITF+ Page 416    
D)PB
E)1
F)a nibble
Explanation
A bit is represented as an individual 0 or 1, and is the level at which the processor operates. All commands 
must be translated to a 0 or a 1 so that the processor can use it. A bit is the smallest measurement of storage 
on a computer.
The values of 0 and 1 can also be used to represent no or yes, as well as false or true.
01000001 would represent a byte. A byte is a collection of eight bits (0s and 1s), such as 01000001.
A single character in a plaintext file requires a byte to store it.
A nibble is a measurement of four bits, or half a byte.
F3 would be a hexadecimal number. Hexadecimal (or “hex”) numbers are based on values from 0 -9 followed 
by A -F, with A -F representing the decimal numbers 10 -15.
Hexade
cimal0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 A B C D E F
Decimal 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15
Hexadecimal numbers are often represented as pairs, such as E8 and 2F, but 32 can also be a hexadecimal 
number.
A PB is a petabyte, roughly one quadrillion (1,125,899,906,842,620) bytes, with each byte representing eight 
bits. To put it in perspective, a PB would be enough storage to hold approximately 20,000 -45,000 full -length 
HD movies.
Objective:
IT Concepts and Terminology
Sub-Objective:
Compare and contrast common units of measure.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 6: Common Units of Measure: 
Storage, Throughput, and Speed:
Previous
Next
Go to Summary
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
Question #11 of 75 QuestionId #1577501
Which of the following is NOT a property associated with a primary key in a relational database?
A)It must have a value.
B)It must be unique.
C)Only one primary key per table is allowed.
D)The primary key is optional.
Explanation
The primary key is not optional. A primary key is required for each table in a relational database.
Primary keys must have a value, they must be unique so as to identify a single row in a table, and there can 
only be one primary key per table. In the following exhibit, the column “id” represents the primary key.
Objective:
Database Fundamentals
Sub-Objective:
Compare and contrast various database structures.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 26: Compare and Contrast Various 
Database Structures, Relational Databases
   Comptia ITF+ Page 417    
Database Structures, Relational Databases
Previous
Next
Go to Summary
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
Question #12 of 75 QuestionId #1577462
You are setting up a wireless network for a coffee shop. The shop owner is concerned about the types of 
traffic on the network. She would like to have patrons acknowledge an Acceptable Use Policy before logging 
on to the network.
Which of the following best practices would allow you to configure the network per the owner’s request?
A)Implement Open Authentication.
B)Change the SSID.
C)Change the default password.
D)Set up a captive portal.
Explanation
You would set up a captive portal. A captive portal allows you to configure the network per the owner’s 
request. Captive portals are common methods whereby patrons of coffee shops, hotels, event venues, and 
other establishments have to agree to traffic volume limitations and the prohibition of objectionable content 
prior to accessing the wireless network. Often presented as a logon screen that users must complete, a 
captive portal can provide added security, capture user data such as email address, present terms and 
conditions to protect the owner from lawsuits, and provide opportunities to generate revenue. The following 
exhibit shows a captive portal for a coffee shop.
Changing the service set identifier (SSID) is a wireless security best practice that applies to a wireless access 
point, not the type of traffic on the network. The SSID is commonly referred to as the wireless network name. 
Wireless access points are configured with a default SSID, usually identifying the model of the device. When 
you are attempting to connect to one of several wireless networks available to you, what you are seeing is 
the SSID that is broadcast by that wireless access point. The following exhibit shows available SSID choices.
Another wireless network best practice is to change the default password. If you know the model number of 
a wireless access point, a quick web search will provide you with the default password. If the default 
password has not been changed, someone can easily gain control over the access point. However, this has no 
bearing on this scenario because on a public network either the password has been removed or is shared 
with the users.
Open authentication is not a wireless security best practice. With open authentication, anyone can have 
access to your wireless network, and traffic on the network can be seen by other computers on the network.
Objective:
Infrastructure
Sub-Objective:
Given a scenario, install, configure and secure a basic wireless network.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 15: Given a Scenario, Install, 
Configure, and Secure a Basic Wireless Network
Previous
Next
Go to Summary
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
Question #13 of 75 QuestionId #1577443
Which of the following are connections that are used in wired networking? (Choose two.)
A)RJ-11
B)RJ-45
C)DVI
D)VGA
   Comptia ITF+ Page 418    
D)VGA
Explanation
RJ-11 and RJ -45 (registered jack) are both connections (input/output interfaces) that are used in networking. 
An RJ -11 connection has 6 pins and is used for telephone and modem connections. An RJ -45 connection has 
eight pins and is used for Ethernet cables. Typically, if you are connecting to the network with a cable, you 
are using an RJ -45 connection.
Digital Visual Interface (DVI) connectors are used for video connections. They were intended to replace an 
older technology called Video Graphics Array (VGA), which was an analog connection, and allow for a digital 
connection. Think of analog connections as older glass monitors and TVs, while flat -screen TVs and monitors 
are digital connections.
The three main types of DVI connectors are DVI -A (analog only), DVI -D (digital only), and DVI -I (analog or 
digital). DVI -D and DVI -I may have single links or dual links. Dual links do not connect to multiple monitors but 
rather allow for the use of high resolution displays. DVI connections are illustrated in the following exhibit:
Video Graphics Array (VGA) is an older video connector designed for older glass monitors called cathode ray 
tubes (CRT). Think of a CRT monitor as an older TV without the tuner that allows you to change channels. 
Even though most VGA devices have been replaced with devices with higher resolution (better picture 
quality), VGA is still supported by many display types. VGA connections are illustrated in the following exhibit:
Objective:
Infrastructure
Sub-Objective:
Classify common types of input/output device interfaces.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 8: I/O: Input/Output Device 
Interfaces, Networking, Wired
Previous
Next
Go to Summary
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
Question #14 of 75 QuestionId #1577452
Where would you most likely find a 64 -bit CPU? (Choose all that apply.)
A)Tablet computer
B)Laptop
C)Workstation
D)Server
Explanation
You would most likely find a 64 bit CPU in a laptop, workstation, or server.
A tablet computer would most likely use an Advanced Reduced Instruction Set Computer (RISC) Machine 
(ARM) processor. You would also most likely see an ARM processor in a mobile device or a Raspberry Pi. 
Tablets use special processors, including dual -core or quad -core processors, but they do not use 64 -bit 
processors.
Laptops, workstations, and servers designed for complex operating systems such as Windows, Mac, or Linux 
would use 32 -bit or 64 -bit processors, although the vast majority use 64 -bit. The numbers 32 and 64 signify 
the number of channels of traffic that can be sent to the processor at any one time. They are analogous to 
lanes on a highway: more lanes mean you can move more traffic.
A simplified explanation follows. A 32 -bit processor is analogous to the following exhibit. When the user 
types “Army” into the keyboard, 32 bits of data are set to the keyboard.
Similarly, on a 64 -bit computer, when the user types “Computer”, 64 bits of data are sent to the keyboard.
Objective:
Infrastructure
Sub-Objective:
Explain the purpose of common internal computing components.
References:
   Comptia ITF+ Page 419    
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter10: Explain the Purpose of 
Common Internal Computing Components, CPU
Previous
Next
Go to Summary
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
Question #15 of 75 QuestionId #1599785
Which of the following symbols indicates where you would connect a USB peripheral device?
A)
B)
C)
D)
Explanation
The above graphic indicates a connection for a Universal Serial Bus (USB) peripheral device. USB has truly 
become a universal connector. There are several types of USBs with different transfer rates, and types are 
indicated by color on the computer and the connecting device.
USB Type Also called Speed Connection color
1.1 (obsolete) Full speed USB 12 Mbps White
2.0 Hi-speed USB 480 Mbps Black
3.0 SuperSpeed USB 5 Gpbs Blue
3.1 Generation2 SuperSpeed+ USB 10 Gbps Red
The above graphic would indicate an Ethernet or RJ -45 connection for a network. The connector would look 
like the following exhibit:
The above graphic would indicate an HDMI connection for audio/video. High Definition Multimedia Interface 
(HDMI) is a video connection that transmits both a high -definition video signal and an audio signal. The HDMI 
connector is shown in the following exhibit:
The above graphic would indicate the connector for a DisplayPort graphic device. DisplayPort is similar to 
HDMI, but allows you to connect up to four HD monitors.
Objective:
Infrastructure
Sub-Objective:
Classify common types of input/output device interfaces.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 8: I/O: Input/Output Device 
Interfaces, Peripheral Devices, USB
Previous
Next
Go to Summary
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
Question #16 of 75 QuestionId #1577488
You have completed a brainstorming session with a group of programmers about a new program and you 
want to visualize the overall logic of what has to happen in the program.
Which organizational concept would be the best to use?
A)Pseudocode
B)Sequence
C)Branching
D)Looping
   Comptia ITF+ Page 420    
D)Looping
E)Flow chart
Explanation
A flow chart is an excellent way to visualize the logic of a program. Flow charts represent programming steps 
using a series of symbols, each signifying a different type of activity. A flow chart can be used as a step 
between the pseudocode and the development of the actual coding language, also known as syntax. It allows 
the programmer to visually represent the logic of the programming and the program flow. Some of the basic 
flowchart shapes are included in the following exhibit:
The following exhibit shows a simplified flowchart (using the free web -based tool draw.io) for the order entry 
pseudocode listed below.
Pseudocode is written without regard to any specific programming language. It represents what the 
programmer wants to do in the simplest of terms, or the action to be performed from a conceptual 
standpoint. Pseudocode must be rewritten in the desired programming language for the computer to use it. 
Here is an example of pseudocode for a retail transaction:
Enter the Item Number.1.
Find the Item Number in the Inventory database.2.
Get the Item Price and the Item Description.3.
Display the Item Price and Item Description.4.
Enter the Quantity Sold for that Item.5.
Multiply the Item Price by the Quantity Sold.6.
Save the result of the calculation as Item Subtotal.7.
Display the Item Price, Item Description, Quantity Sold, and Item Subtotal.8.
Add the Item Subtotal to the Order Total.9.
Ask if there is another item. 10.
If there is another item, repeat steps 1 -10, until there are no more items. 11.
A sequence is a group of instructions that are executed one after the other, without branching or looping. A 
sequence for calculating gross pay could look like this:
Looping    allows a program to repeat a series of commands either while a condition remains true (DO WHILE) 
or until a certain condition is met (DO UNTIL). A FOR loop will allow a series of instructions to repeat a certain 
number of times within a range of values, e.g., FOR StudentCount=1 to 30. The following exhibit shows a DO 
WHILE loop. Branching provides a decision point where two different paths (branches) can be followed based 
on the decision made.
The following exhibit demonstrates a DO UNTIL loop:
Objective:
Software Development Concepts
Sub-Objective:
Given a scenario, use programming organizational techniques and interpret logic.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 23: Using Programming 
Organizational Techniques and Interpret Logic, Organizational Techniques
Previous
Next
Go to Summary
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
Question #17 of 75 QuestionId #1257454
Libre Office is an example of software that uses which type of licensing?
A)Proprietary
B)Subscription
C)One-time purchase
D)Open -source
Explanation
Libre Office is an example of software that uses open -source licensing. Open -source means that a developer 
   Comptia ITF+ Page 421    
Libre Office is an example of software that uses open -source licensing. Open -source means that a developer 
can get the source code (original programming) and either modify or improve upon it. In most cases, open -
source software is distributed freely.
Proprietary software, such as Microsoft Office, does not allow developers to access or modify the source 
code. Also, when you buy a copy of proprietary software, you do not “own” the software. You purchase a 
license to use it.
Subscription software offers a license to use the software for a specific period of time. As an example. 
Microsoft Office 365 offers a five -user license for one year.
One-time purchase software offers users a license without the need for periodic renewal. An example is 
Microsoft Windows: you pay a fee for the license and the software is yours to use for as long as you need it. 
One-time purchase software will often have a product key or serial number that is used to validate the 
purchase.
Objective:
Applications and Software
Sub-Objective:
Compare and contrast general application concepts and uses.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 21: Compare and Contrast General 
Application Concepts and Uses, Licensing
Previous
Next
Go to Summary
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
Question #18 of 75 QuestionId #1577485
Of which type of programming language are XML and SQL examples?
A)Interpreted
B)Compiled
C)Scripting
D)Query
Explanation
Extensible Markup Language (XML) and Structured Query Language (SQL) are types of query languages. 
Query languages allow you to extract information from a database. The most common query language is SQL, 
used for relational databases. XQuery is used for data extraction in XML documents. An example of an SQL 
statement is:
SELECT LastName, FirstName from EmployeeTable where EmployeeID=123456789
Interpreted languages read a line of instructions and convert the line to binary at the time of execution. 
Interpreted languages include BASIC, Perl, JavaScript, Python, Ruby, and PowerShell. The following exhibit 
shows a line of programming code converted to binary.
An analogy would be to copy a sentence from a paragraph written in the author’s language, paste it into 
Google Translate, and then read the translation in your own language, as shown in the following exhibit:
Compiled programming languages, such as C, COBOL, C++, and Java, convert the entire source code to binary 
prior to execution. This process is known as compiling. In contrast to an interpreted language, which requires 
line-by-line conversion, compiled languages convert all of the code prior to delivering it to the processor. A 
good comparison would be to read a book that is written in a foreign language where you look up the 
translation into your own language one line at a time, versus reading a book that is already translated. If 
there is a syntax error (language -specific grammar or spelling) in the code, the compiler (converter) will stop 
the translation process and identify the error.
Scripting languages are types of interpreted languages that can be executed without the need to be compiled 
(converted to binary) first. It allows for simplified execution of tasks, such as the steps required to onboard a 
new employee. Languages such as Perl, PHP, and Python are examples of server -side scripting languages.
Objective:
Software Development Concepts
Sub-Objective:
Compare and contrast programming language categories.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 422    
Compare and contrast programming language categories.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 22: Compare and Contrast 
Programming Language Categories, Query Languages
Previous
Next
Go to Summary
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
Question #19 of 75 QuestionId #1577519
Which of these is NOT correct when comparing plain text vs. cipher text?
A)Plain text is written in the user’s native language.
B)Plain text uses a key to scramble a message to cipher text.
C)Cipher text uses a key to unscramble a message to plain text.
D)Cipher text uses a key to scramble a message to plain text.
Explanation
Cipher text uses a key to scramble a message to plain text is NOT correct when comparing plain text vs. 
cipher text. Cipher text is the result of taking a plain text message and scrambling (encrypting) it with a key or 
algorithm.
Plain text is written in the user’s native language and uses a key or algorithm to scramble (encrypt) a message 
to cipher text. Once transmitted, cipher text uses the same key or algorithm to unscramble (decrypt) a 
message to plain text.
An example of a simple encryption algorithm is ROT13. Each character is replaced with one 13 letters further 
down the English alphabet. For example, the letter H become the letter U after encryption, as seen in the 
following exhibit.
Objective:
Security
Sub-Objective:
Explain common uses of encryption.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 33: Explain Common Uses of 
Encryption
Previous
Next
Go to Summary
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
Question #20 of 75 QuestionId #1257519
Which of the following password best practices requires you to change your password on a periodic basis?
A)Password managers
B)Password length
C)Password history
D)Password expiration
Explanation
Password expiration policies dictate that passwords should expire from time to time. A password becomes 
easier to crack as the length of time it is used increases. Highly secure organizations might require that you 
change your password on a weekly basis, but a password best practice could be to change your password 
every 30 days, based on the day of the month you were hired.
A password manager would be the most beneficial practice to eliminate password reuse across sites. 
Password reuse across sites occurs when the same password (or one with only a slight modification) is used 
on multiple web sites. This practice, while convenient, represents a significant security risk. To mitigate that 
   Comptia ITF+ Page 423    
on multiple web sites. This practice, while convenient, represents a significant security risk. To mitigate that 
risk, use a password manager. Password managers allow you to generate unique passwords for each website 
you visit, but all you have to remember is a master password. An example of how a password manager works 
is demonstrated by the following exhibit.
An example of a password length best practice is to combine at least three non -related dictionary words 
totaling 30 characters for your password. Passwords become more difficult to crack as the length of the 
password increases. A good practice is to have a password of no less than 10 characters. An example of an 
excellent long password, comprised of three unrelated dictionary words that are easy to remember, is 
ElephantPossibilityActivitation.
Password history policies do not allow you to use your most recent passwords. Often, these are limited to a 
certain number of old passwords, 5 for example. In such a case, the organization would examine your new 
password and compare it to a list of your five most recent passwords. If the new password is found on the 
list, an error message would be displayed telling you that you need to select a different password.
As part of best practices, a user would get a new password through the password reset process. In the event 
a user forgets the password, they should follow the instructions that appear after pressing a Reset Password, 
Forgot Password, or some similar link on the site.
Objective:
Security
Sub-Objective:
Explain password best practices.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 32: Explain Password Best 
Practices: Password Expiration
Previous
Next
Go to Summary
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
Question #21 of 75 QuestionId #1577467
Where would you go to configure an SSD?
A)Programs and Features section of the Control Panel
B)System Properties
C)Task Manager
D)Disk Management
Explanation
You would configure a solid state drive (SSD) in the Disk Management console. Right -click the Windows Start 
icon and select Disk Management. The application will launch as seen in the following exhibit. Right -click a 
new disk to begin the configuration process.
  
The Programs and Features section of the Control Panel allows you to perform application management in 
Windows, such as uninstalling, changing features, and repairing applications. Go to Control Panel, then 
Programs and Features. All applications installed on the computer are listed here. You can right -click on an 
application and uninstall, change, or repair the application, as seen in the following exhibit.
System Properties allows you to configure memory management, including virtual memory, among other 
things. The Virtual Memory Manager controls the size of the file (swapfile.sys) that is used to temporarily 
store data when the random access memory (RAM) is full. Go to Control Panel, then System, then Advanced 
System Settings. On the Advanced tab, under performance, select Settings:
In the Performance Options window, select the Advanced tab. Under Virtual memory, select Change:
When you clear the Automatically manage paging file size for all drives setting, you will be able to manually 
configure your virtual memory settings.
The Task Manager allows you to manage processes. The following exhibit shows a snapshot of the processes 
running at the time. If you want to kill a non -responsive process, for example, right -click on the process and 
select End Task.
Objective:
Applications and Software
   Comptia ITF+ Page 424    
Applications and Software
Sub-Objective:
Manage applications and software.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 16: Explain the Purpose of the 
Operating Systems
Previous
Next
Go to Summary
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
Question #22 of 75 QuestionId #1577498
Which of the following represent a primary usage of database information? (Choose all that apply.)
A)Create tables
B)Import/export data
C)Query data
D)Produce reports
Explanation
Create tables, import/export data, query data, and produce reports all represent a primary usage of database 
information.
You would first create the database, using the building blocks of tables to store the data and index values to 
allow the tables to reference each other. This is the structure of the database, in essence, the skeleton. You 
would then create tables by defining the columns of data that the tables will store. A table would contain a 
group of similar data. Columns in a Students table, for instance, would include Name, StreetAddress, City, 
State, Zip, and perhaps FieldOfStudy. You would not include a column called TextBookPublisher, because that 
is not relevant to Student data. TextBookPublisher would, however, be relevant to a table called Textbooks.
The ability to import and export data is critical. As an example, a spreadsheet table can be used to originally 
organize the tables and rows and populate those tables and rows with sample data. A common method of 
importing/exporting data is through a comma -separated value (.csv) file, as seen in the following exhibit. 
Open Database Connectivity (ODBC) can be used to import or export data between many different platforms.
A query lets you retrieve data from a database. Query languages are how the retrieval occurs. The original 
data remains in the database and you look at a copy of it. The most common query language is SQL, used for 
relational databases. XQuery is used for data extraction in XML documents. An example of an SQL statement 
is:
SELECT LastName, FirstName from EmployeeTable where EmployeeID=123456789
Reports can be produced visually on a screen or in printed/pdf format. They provide a mechanism to visualize 
the data in a meaningful manner as opposed to looking at the raw data. The report illustrated in the following 
exhibit shows users and the associated number of records they have created in a database named STORAGE 
DB -001.
Objective:
Database Fundamentals
Sub-Objective:
Explain database concepts and the purpose of a database.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 25 Explain Database Concepts and 
the Purpose of a Database
Previous
Next
Go to Summary
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
Question #23 of 75 QuestionId #1257423
   Comptia ITF+ Page 425    
Question #23 of 75 QuestionId #1257423
You need to configure your wireless network with the highest level of encryption.
Which standard would you use?
A)Configure WPA.
B)Configure WEP.
C)Enable Open Authentication.
D)Configure WPA2.
Explanation
To provide the highest level of encryption, you would configure Wi -Fi Protected Access version 2 (WPA2). 
Encryption is managed in the adapter settings. Open the adapter settings and change the security type to 
WPA2 as described below.
Select the Wi -Fi connection and select View status of this connection, as shown in the following exhibit:
Select Wireless Properties as shown in the following exhibit:
On the Security tab, select WPA2 (Personal or Enterprise, depending on the network configuration) from the 
Security type drop -down, AES for the encryption type, and enter the network security key (password) as 
shown in the following exhibit:
Wi-Fi Protected Access (WPA) was developed to address the shortcomings of Wired Equivalent Privacy 
(WEP). WPA allowed for passwords up to 63 characters and added Temporal Key Integrity Protocol (TKIP) to 
the RC4 offered in WEP. WPA2 is the newest version of WPA and is much stronger.
WEP was the earliest form of wireless encryption, working with 802.11a and 802.11b wireless security 
standards. Later modifications allowed it to be used with some 802.11g equipment. WEP initially used a 
password that was only five ASCII characters or 10 hex characters long, combined with RC4 encryption. The 
short password length and encryption method made WEP easy to hack.
The following exhibit summarizes the differences in encryption methods:
Open Authentication (OAuth) is not a wireless security best practice. With Open Authentication, anyone can 
have access to your wireless network and traffic on the network can be seen by other computers on the 
network. When comparing encrypted and unencrypted wireless security, Open Authentication presents the 
least security because it is unencrypted.
Objective:
Infrastructure
Sub-Objective:
Given a scenario, install, configure and secure a basic wireless network.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 15: Given a Scenario, Install, 
Configure, and Secure a Basic Wireless Network
Previous
Next
Go to Summary
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
Question #24 of 75 QuestionId #1577492
In programming, which of the following are considered identifiers? (Choose two.)
A)Arrays
B)Constants
C)Variables
D)Attributes
Explanation
In programming, variables and constants are considered identifiers.
Variables are receptacles used in programming to store temporary values. The values that are stored can 
change during the execution of the program. They operate much the same way that single -letter variables do 
in math. In math, you might calculate gross pay using the formula G=H*R, where H is the number of hours 
worked, R is the rate of pay per hour, and G is used to store the Gross Pay amount, which is H*R. In 
programming, we have the luxury of using full words such as GrossPay, HoursWorked, and RateOfPay.
When naming variables, a best practice is to give the variable a name that relates to the information being 
   Comptia ITF+ Page 426    
When naming variables, a best practice is to give the variable a name that relates to the information being 
stored. Variables cannot contain spaces, so multiple words can be joined together (concatenated) using 
capital letters or underscores. For example, you could name a variable to store the first name as “fname”, 
“First_name”, or “FirstName”. Do not use the hyphen as it is interpreted as subtraction.
Constants work like variables except that the value stored does not change (the value remains constant). For 
example, you can define (assign) the value of 3.14159 to the constant PI, or 5280 to the constant 
FeetPerMile, or 28.3495 to GramsPerOunce.
Arrays are multi -dimensional containers for data. For two -dimensional arrays, the array address is the row 
number and column, as illustrated in the following exhibit. Array addresses can be used in programs in the 
same manner as variables. A note of caution: Arrays begin numbering their rows and columns at 0, not 1.
The following exhibit is an example of a three -dimensional array. In addition to a row and column in the 
address, there is a page number as the final number in the address.
Attributes are what are used to describe the properties of an object or the object itself. For an object called 
Shoe, attributes for the property Shoe.manufacturer could be Shoe.manufacturer (Nike), Shoe.manufacturer 
(Adidas), or Shoe.manufacturer (NewBalance).
Objective:
Software Development Concepts
Sub-Objective:
Explain the purpose and use of programming concepts.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 24: Explain the Purpose and Use of 
Programming Concepts, Identifiers
Previous
Next
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
Question #25 of 75 QuestionId #1257369
Which type of operation is happening if you are listening to music on your headphones?
A)Input
B)Processing
C)Storage
D)Output
Explanation
Listening to music on your headphones is an output operation. Output is the operation that presents 
the information after processing has completed. As an example, if you are using Microsoft Word and 
you type the capital letter A on the keyboard, 01000001 is sent to the processor. The processor works 
with Microsoft Word to determine that 01000001 needs to be displayed on the monitor as A. 
Displaying the information is the output operation.
Input operations involve getting data into the computer for further processing. Examples include 
recording audio; entering data through a keyboard, touchpad or mouse; scanning a document; and 
opening a file stored on a flash drive. But there are many other methods of getting information into 
the computer.
Input devices include a mouse, keyboard, microphone, touchpad, game controller, web cam, barcode 
reader, and scanner.
Output can be presented in many ways, including lights, sounds, beeps, your cellphone ringtone when 
you get a call or email, printed information from a printer, information on an HDTV, a computer 
monitor, projector, speakers, printers, and plotters. Don’t forget transmitting information over a 
network!
Processing involves taking the data that has been input into the computer, and using a computer 
program (app or application) to transform that data into information. The main components of 
processing are random access memory (RAM) for temporary storage (think of RAM as a “staging area” 
that is used to store data that the processor is about to need), the central processing unit (CPU) which 
is the brain and engine of the computer (think of the CPU as a very fast calculator that only works with 
the digits 0 and 1), and the graphics processing unit (GPU), which handles processing of video 
information so that the processor can focus on other tasks.
Objective:
   Comptia ITF+ Page 427    
Objective:
IT Concepts and Terminology
Sub-Objective:
Illustrate the basics of computing and processing.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 4: Input, Output, and More: 
The Basics of Computing and Processing, Output
Previous
Next
Go to Summary
Go to Summary
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
Question #26 of 75 QuestionId #1577464
You need to purchase a new wireless router. You want to watch movies and television shows over the 
Internet through a subscription service.
What feature would you look for in a wireless router that would give the best performance?
A)802.11a
B)802.11b
C)802.11n
D)802.11ac
Explanation
The feature you would look for in a new wireless router that would give you the best performance is 
802.11ac. In order to watch movies and television shows, you need a high data transfer rate (bandwidth). The 
following exhibit shows the comparisons between the various 802.11 wireless standards.
802.11a and 802.11g only have data rates of 54 Mbps (megabits per second).
802.11b only has a data rate of 11 Mbps.
802.11n has a data rate of 600 Mbps. This is sufficient to allow for some online streaming but will most likely 
result in buffering. Buffering pauses the viewing while additional content is downloaded, giving a stop/start 
effect to your viewing.
Objective:
Infrastructure
Sub-Objective:
Given a scenario, install, configure and secure a basic wireless network.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 15: Given a Scenario, Install, 
Configure, and Secure a Basic Wireless Network
Previous
Next
Go to Summary
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
Question #27 of 75 QuestionId #1577517
Which of the following authorization concepts only allows the user access to the systems and resources 
required to do their job?
A)User account types
B)Mandatory access controls
C)Discretionary access controls
D)Least privilege model
Explanation
   Comptia ITF+ Page 428    
Explanation
The least privilege model only allows the user access to the systems and resources required to do their job. In 
an accounting system, an accounts receivable clerk would not necessarily need access to payroll or accounts 
payable information.
User account types is a component of role -based access. Role -based access provides authorization based on 
what type of job or role the person has in the organization, usually as a member of a group. In an academic 
environment, someone who is a member of the “Instructor” group would not need access to the “Financial 
Aid” information, as those are two separate functions.
Mandatory access controls provides for centralized access management. Users cannot make any changes 
regarding how resources are used. The following exhibit describes some examples of mandatory access 
controls:
Discretionary access control allows the owner of a resource to decide who can access a resource. An example 
of discretionary access control would be a user making a folder available for sharing.  
Another type of access control, rule -based access uses policies to determine access. An example would be 
that users are only allowed to log onto the network between 9 am and 5 pm.
Permissions refers to how users and groups can access resources. Permissions are used as part of any access 
control.
Objective:
Security
Sub-Objective:
Compare and contrast authentication, authorization, accounting, and non -repudiation concepts.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 31: Compare and Contrast 
Authentication, Authorization, Accounting, and Nonrepudiation Concepts, Authentication
Previous
Next
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
Question #28 of 75 QuestionId #1577447
You dropped something heavy onto your new laptop and now the keyboard is broken. Rather than 
replace the laptop or order a replacement keyboard from the manufacturer, you find a keyboard in 
your box of old parts. However, the keyboard has a connector as indicated by the following exhibit:
You realize you can still purchase a new keyboard, but what type of connector is this?
A)USB
B)Wireless dongle
C)Bluetooth
D)PS2
Explanation
The connector is a PS2 connector, used on older systems to connect keyboards and mice. Unlike plug -
and-play devices, the computer had to be turned off before you could install a PS2 device, then turned 
back on.
The following exhibit shows two USB connectors:
Some keyboard boxes might be labelled with the following symbol, which indicates USB:
To install a USB (plug -and-play) printer, you would plug the printer into an open USB port once the 
operating system has loaded. The computer will automatically recognize the device.
Wireless keyboards come with a dongle that would typically look like this:
To install a wireless keyboard, follow these steps:
Plug the wireless dongle (above picture) into a USB 2.0 or higher port. 1.
Install the batteries in the keyboard and turn it on. 2.
The keyboard will be recognized in a moment.
A Bluetooth keyboard will have the following symbol:
To install a Bluetooth keyboard, follow these steps:
Install batteries in the keyboard, and turn it on. 1.
Turn on the Bluetooth receiver in the computer.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 429    
Turn on the Bluetooth receiver in the computer. 2.
Follow the instructions to pair the devices. 3.
When they are paired, you are ready to use the keyboard.
The plug -and-play keyboard would be the easiest to install. Plug -and-play occurs when the operating 
system recognizes the device when it is plugged in. The operating system then automatically installs 
the appropriate device driver.
Objective:
Infrastructure
Sub-Objective:
Given a scenario, set up and install common peripheral devices to a laptop/PC.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 9: Connecting and 
Configuring Peripherals, Installation Types, Plug -and-Play vs. Driver Installation
Previous
Next
Go to Summary
Go to Summary
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
Question #29 of 75 QuestionId #1257401
Which of these Internet service types provides the best opportunity for service in extremely remote areas?
A)Cellular
B)Radio frequency
C)DSL
D)Satellite
Explanation
Satellite Internet service provides the best opportunity for service in extremely remote areas. All that is 
required for a satellite connection is a satellite dish and a clear sky. At the time of this writing, the two major 
providers offer service between 12 and 25 Mbps (Viasat) and 50 Mbps (HughesNet). In addition to slower 
speeds, the connections have limits regarding the amount of data that can be downloaded per month. The 
advantage of satellite service is that it is available in rural and remote areas beyond the reach of wired 
connections. Satellite connections are also susceptible to atmospheric interference from weather, such as 
rain, fog, and snow, or other natural disturbances.
Cellular Internet service is built into smartphones and many tablets. As long as you have a data plan from a 
cellular provider and access to cellular service, you should be able to receive cellular Internet service. If you 
are out of cellular service range, you will not be able to access cellular Internet.
Radio Frequency (RF) is based on a line -of-site connection to one of multiple towers in the area. RF uses a 
focused antenna pointed at a provider’s tower. If the provider does not offer a tower in your area, you will 
not be able to get Internet service.
Digital Subscriber Line (DSL) Internet service is provided by telephone companies and is delivered over 
telephone lines. DSL is distance -sensitive and is based on how far the subscriber is from the telephone 
company’s central office. The best connections will be closer to the central office, and the speeds will 
decrease as you approach the limit of approximately 5.5 kilometers or 18,000 feet (3.4 miles). DSL download 
speeds run between 5 and 35 megabits per second (Mbps), with upload speeds ranging between 1 and 10 
Mbps.
Objective:
Infrastructure
Sub-Objective:
Compare and contrast common Internet service types.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 11: Internet Service Types, 
Wireless
Previous
   Comptia ITF+ Page 430    
Previous
Next
Go to Summary
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
Question #30 of 75 QuestionId #1257518
Which password policy would the use of a password manager be the most beneficial practice to eliminate?
A)One-time password
B)Password expiration
C)Password reset process
D)Password reuse across sites
Explanation
The most beneficial practice a password manager would eliminate is password reuse across sites. Password 
reuse across sites occurs when the same password (or one with only a slight modification) is used on multiple 
web sites. This practice, while convenient, represents a significant security risk. To mitigate that risk, use a 
password manager. Password managers allow you to generate unique passwords for each website you visit, 
but all you have to remember is a master password. An example of how a password manager works is 
demonstrated by the following exhibit.
Password managers do not really help with any of the other password policies.
A one -time password (OTP) might incorporate a time -sensitive element to reset a password. OTPs are often 
used in a password reset request. In the event the user forgets a password, the user can request that the 
password be reset. When using a one -time password, the system will generate the OTP and send it to the 
user, often via text or alternate email. Ideally, an OTP would also have a time restriction limiting how long it 
would be valid, such as 10 minutes or a few hours. Once the user logs on to the OTP, the system will request 
that the user select a new password.
Password expiration policies dictate that passwords should expire from time to time. A password becomes 
easier to crack as the length of time it is used increases. Highly secure organizations might require that you 
change your password on a weekly basis, but a password best practice could be to change your password 
every 30 days, based on the day of the month you were hired.
A password manager would not eliminate the password reset process. In the event a user forgets a password, 
they should follow the instructions that appear after pressing a Reset Password, Forgot Password, or some 
similar link on the site.
Objective:
Security
Sub-Objective:
Explain password best practices.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 32: Explain Password Best 
Practices
Previous
Next
Go to Summary
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
Question #31 of 75 QuestionId #1257483
Which of the following addresses the storage concern of data persistence?
A)Updating a customer’s phone number
B)Looking up a customer’s phone number
C)Using the customer’s phone number as an index value
D)Saving the information to disk
Explanation
Saving the information to disk addresses the storage concern of data persistence. Data that has been added, 
changed, or deleted is not considered persistent (permanent) until it has been written to disk. In SQL, 
   Comptia ITF+ Page 431    
changed, or deleted is not considered persistent (permanent) until it has been written to disk. In SQL, 
persistence is often achieved through a COMMIT statement at the end of the transaction.
Saving changes to data is the essence of persistence. By comparison, the changes made to a Microsoft Word 
document are not considered permanent until you save the document. If you close the document without 
saving it, you will lose the changes.
Updating a customer’s phone number creates the concern of data persistence. It does not address the 
storage concern of data persistence. Until the update is written to disk, the updated data is not persistent 
(permanent).
Looking up a customer’s phone number or using that number as an index value does not make any changes 
to the data, so there is no concern about data persistence.
Objective:
Database Fundamentals
Sub-Objective:
Explain database concepts and the purpose of a database.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 25 Explain Database Concepts and 
the Purpose of a Database, Storage
Previous
Next
Go to Summary
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
Question #32 of 75 QuestionId #1257515
Which of the following concepts deals with determining if a user has been shopping online during company 
time?
A)Logs
B)Tracking
C)Hardware token
D)Web browser history
Explanation
Looking at the web browser history would help determine if a user has been shopping online during company 
time. You can easily see someone’s browser history by hitting CTRL -H in Chrome, Firefox, Edge, or Internet 
Explorer. Browser history in Safari is available as well. Each browser also has a mechanism to perform 
keyword searches in the history to check if a user has been on a specific website. A savvy user can bypass the 
browser history by going into incognito or private mode. If incognito or private mode is selected, browser 
history will not be stored on the local machine. However, the browser history may still be available on an 
organization’s proxy server or the ISP.
Logs (or log files) record events that happen on the computer. There are a lot of different types of events, 
such as logon attempts, error message generation, application usage, and network traffic. The following 
exhibit shows a log file in Windows:
Tracking is used by web browsers to monitor your web searches and traffic history. That history is valuable to 
advertisers and allows the advertiser to specifically target you as a customer. Tracking can also refer to the 
use of GPS coordinates on a mobile device. If you “check in” with your mobile device, your GPS coordinates 
are used to locate other features near you.
Hardware tokens can be key fobs, smart cards, RFID chips, USB dongles, and more. A common practice is to 
have the hardware token generate a random number which the user must capture and enter into the system 
for authentication. The purpose of the hardware token is to prove that the user is in physical possession of 
the object.
Objective:
Security
Sub-Objective:
Compare and contrast authentication, authorization, accounting, and non -repudiation concepts.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 31: Compare and Contrast 
   Comptia ITF+ Page 432    
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 31: Compare and Contrast 
Authentication, Authorization, Accounting, and Nonrepudiation Concepts, Accounting
Previous
Next
Go to Summary
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
Question #33 of 75 QuestionId #1257378
How many bits per second would 1 Gbps transmit?
A)1,024 (one thousand) bits per second
B)1,099,511,627,776 (one trillion) bits per second
C)1,048,576 (one million) bits per second
D)1,073,741,824 (one billion) bits per second
Explanation
One gigabit per second (1 Gbps) transmits 1,073,741,824 (one billion) bits per second. A bit is a 0 or 1.
1,024 (one thousand) bits per second is one kilobit per second (1 Kbps).
1,048,576 (one million) bits per second is one megabit per second (1 Mbps).
1,099,511,627,776 (one trillion) bits per second is one terabit per second (1 Tbps).
The following table illustrates the relationship between the numbers in bytes (for example, 1,024 bytes is 1 
kilobyte):
1,024 Kilo Thousand
1,048,576 Mega Million 1,024 Kilos
1,073,741,824 Giga Billion 1,024 Megas
1,099,511,627,776 Tera Trillion 1,024 Gigas
1,125,899.906.842.620 Peta Quadrillion 1,024 Teras
Objective:
IT Concepts and Terminology
Sub-Objective:
Compare and contrast common units of measure.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 6: Common Units of Measure: 
Storage, Throughput, and Speed
Previous
Next
Go to Summary
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
Question #34 of 75 QuestionId #1577520
Which of the following are ways of achieving fault tolerance through redundancy? (Choose all that apply.)
A)implementing RAID systems
B)allowing both Wi -Fi and Ethernet connections to the network
C)installing a UPS as a temporary power supply
D)using nonrepudiation
Explanation
Implementing RAID systems for data, allowing both Wi -Fi and Ethernet connections to the network, and 
installing a UPS as a temporary power supply are all ways of achieving fault tolerance through redundancy. 
Fault tolerance allows the system to keep operating despite the failure of a major component.
If there is a concern about the possibility of a hard drive failure and loss of data, consider a redundant array 
of independent disks (RAID) system. Several types (levels) of raid are available. RAID 1, also known as 
   Comptia ITF+ Page 433    
of independent disks (RAID) system. Several types (levels) of raid are available. RAID 1, also known as 
mirroring, writes data to two disks simultaneously; if one drive fails, the data is still available on the other 
drive. RAID 1 is illustrated in the following exhibit:
RAID 5 requires at least three hard drives. A portion of each drive is reserved for parity. In the event of a drive 
failure, the remaining drives use the information in the parity sections to rebuild the damaged drive. In the 
following exhibit, if Disk 1 failed, the RAID system would use the information in Dp on Disk 0, Bp on Disk 2, 
and Ap on Disk 3 to rebuild the information on the drive.
If an Ethernet card fails on a device, a second network card or a Wi -Fi card would allow the device to 
maintain connection to the network. A common practice on servers is to have more than one Ethernet 
connection, known as multihoming.
Installing an uninterruptible power supply (UPS) as a temporary power supply is a great way to keep a system 
running for a short time in the event of a power failure. A UPS is designed to keep the system running long 
enough for you to safely shut it down. A UPS is NOT designed for high power demands or to last for several 
days. To sustain a loss of power for longer than a few minutes, consider installing a generator.
Nonrepudiation relates to instances where an individual attempts to deny that they were the sender or 
otherwise involved in an incident. Nonrepudiation means the individual cannot deny they were involved in a 
security event. Nonrepudiation uses video, biometrics, signatures, and receipts to prove that an individual 
was a participant in the security event.
You can also achieve fault tolerance through replication. Replication makes copies of information. In the 
event that the original information is damaged or destroyed, you can use the replicated copy. A database 
backup is an example of replication.
Objective:
Security
Sub-Objective:
Explain business continuity concepts.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 34: Explain Business Continuity 
Concepts, Fault Tolerance
Previous
Next
Go to Summary
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
Question #35 of 75 QuestionId #1577471
You download an MP3 file to your Windows computer. You find it in your Downloads folder as “that great 
song.mp3.” What does the .mp3 in the file name indicate? (Choose two.)
A)Folder
B)File type
C)Directory
D)Extension
Explanation
The .mp3 in the file name indicates the type of file and the extension. Files have a name (preferably 
describing the contents), followed by a dot, and then an extension. The extension is usually associated with a 
particular application. When a user launches a file, the file will open with the specified application associated 
with its extension. If there is no association with the extension, the operating system will prompt you to 
select an application to open the file.
The following exhibit lists many common file types with their extensions and associated applications.
Another form of file management is accomplished by assigning permissions. Permissions are assigned to 
folders and files, and groups or users are granted those permissions. In the NTFS file system, the permissions 
are Full Control, Modify, Read and Execute, List Folder Contents, Read, and Write. When you assign a 
permission to a folder, and subsequently add a subfolder to that folder, the subfolder inherits the 
permissions from the parent” folder. A file inherits the permission from the folder it is in. A subfolder, 
however, can be configured to NOT inherit permissions from its parent folder, shown for Sub Folder 1 in the 
graphic.
Objective:
Applications and Software
   Comptia ITF+ Page 434    
Applications and Software
Sub-Objective:
Compare and contrast components of an operating system.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 17: Operating Systems 101: 
Features, Processes, UI, and Management, File Management
Previous
Next
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
Question #36 of 75 QuestionId #1577491
You want to write a section of a program for a student registration system. The program would read 
the student’s grade for a course. If the grade is above 70%, the student will be allowed to register in 
the next course. Otherwise, the student will have to repeat the course.
Which logic component would you use?
A)Pseudocode
B)Flow chart
C)Looping
D)Branching
Explanation
Branching would allow for the desired functionality. Branching allows a program to proceed in one of 
two directions, based on a yes or no answer to a question. Branching can be thought of “If the 
condition you are testing is true, do this process.” This is called an “IF -THEN” statement.
Another type of branching also allows for an alternate process if the condition is false, such as “If the 
CourseGrade is greater than 70%, take the next course in the sequence, otherwise repeat the course.” 
This type of branching is called “IF -THEN -ELSE.”
Looping allows a program to repeat a series of commands either while a condition remains true (DO 
WHILE) or until a certain condition is met (DO UNTIL). A FOR loop will allow a series of instructions to 
repeat a certain number of times within a range of values, e.g., FOR StudentCount=1 to 30. The 
following exhibit shows a DO WHILE loop.
The following exhibit demonstrates a DO UNTIL loop.
Pseudocode and flow charts are organizational techniques, not logic components.
Pseudocode is written without regard to any specific programming language. It represents what the 
programmer wants to do in the simplest of terms or the action to be performed from a conceptual 
standpoint. Pseudocode must be rewritten in the desired programming language for the computer to 
use it. Here is an example of pseudocode for a retail transaction:
Enter the Item Number. 1.
Find the Item Number in the Inventory database. 2.
Get the Item Price and the Item Description. 3.
Display the Item Price and Item Description. 4.
Enter the Quantity Sold for that Item. 5.
Multiply the Item Price by the Quantity Sold. 6.
Save the result of the calculation as Item Subtotal. 7.
Display the Item Price, Item Description, Quantity Sold, and Item Subtotal. 8.
Add the Item Subtotal to the Order Total. 9.
Ask if there is another item. 10.
If there is another item, repeat steps 1 -10, until there are no more items. 11.
A flow chart is an excellent way to visualize the logic of a program. Flow charts represent programming 
steps using a series of symbols, each signifying a different type of activity. A flow chart can be used as a 
step between the pseudocode and the development of the actual coding language, also known as 
syntax. It allows the programmer to visually represent the logic of the programming and the program 
flow. Some of the basic flowchart shapes are included in the following exhibit:
Objective:
Software Development Concepts
   Comptia ITF+ Page 435    
Software Development Concepts
Sub-Objective:
Given a scenario, use programming organizational techniques and interpret logic.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 23: Using Programming 
Organizational Techniques and Interpret Logic
Previous
Next
Go to Summary
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
Question #37 of 75 QuestionId #1257360
What does the IPv4 address 192.168.100.1 look like in binary?
A)C0:B0:64:01
B)11111111.11111111.11111111.11111111
C)461
D)11000000.10101000.01100100.00000001
Explanation
The IPv4 address 192.168.100.1 would look like 11000000.10101000.01100100.00000001.
C0:B0:64:01 would be the hexadecimal representation of 192.168.0.1. Hexadecimal (or “hex”) numbers 
are based on the digits 0 -9 followed by A -F, with A -F representing the decimal numbers 10 -15.
Hexade
cimal0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 A B C D E F
Decimal 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15
Hexadecimal numbers are often represented as pairs, such as E8 and 2F, but 32 can also be a 
hexadecimal number.
For the binary number 11101000 (remember 8 bits are called a byte), split it into two halves, each 
called a nibble. We end up with 1110 and 1000.
Binary 1 1 1 0 1 0 0 0
8 4 2 1 8 4 2 1
8+4+2+0=
148+0+0+0
=0
Hex value E 
(from the 
table 
above)Hex 
value 8 
(from 
the table 
above)
Hex E8
Decimal (Left hex 
value x 
16)+(right 
hex 
value)=deci
mal 
valueE(deci
mal 14)*16
=224224+8
=232E8 
(hex)=232 
(decimal)
The table below shows how to easily convert binary to hex to decimal, using the nibbles.
11111111.11111111.11111111.11111111 would be 255.255.255.255 in decimal.
Objective:
IT Concepts and Terminology
   Comptia ITF+ Page 436    
IT Concepts and Terminology
Sub-Objective:
Compare and contrast notational systems.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 2: How Computers Store 
Data: Notational Systems, Binary
Previous
Next
Go to Summary
Go to Summary
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
Question #38 of 75 QuestionId #1257372
Along with trademarks, which of the following are considered a company’s intellectual property and are 
typically protected against unauthorized use? (Choose all that apply.)
A)Patents
B)Customer lists
C)Trade secrets
D)Copyrights
Explanation
Patents, copyrights, and trademarks are considered a company’s intellectual property.
Patents are awarded to inventions that are new, provide some use or value, are not obvious, and perform at 
least one function. Patents are designed to protect the inventor for a specific period of time and provide the 
inventor with the exclusive right to use the invention contained in the patent. The owner of the patent may 
choose to grant a license for someone to use the invention. If someone uses, markets, or sells the invention 
without the permission of the patent owner, infringement occurs.
Copyrights are issued to the creator of original work and are issued for a specified period of time. Written 
works, paintings, songs, and even software can be copyrighted. Use of the copyrighted material without 
permission is infringement and is subject to damages.
Customer lists and trade secrets are valuable, but they are not intellectual property. A customer list is not a 
unique creative work or invention protected by intellectual property law. An identical customer list could 
theoretically be compiled by a competitor in the same industry.
Objective:
IT Concepts and Terminology
Sub-Objective:
Explain the value of data and information.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 5: Explain the Value of Data and 
Information, Data and Information as Assets
Previous
Next
Go to Summary
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
Question #39 of 75 QuestionId #1257359
Which of these is a valid hexadecimal number?
A)H4
B)0001
C)11.5
D)E8
   Comptia ITF+ Page 437    
D)E8
Explanation
E8 is a valid hexadecimal number.
H4 is not a valid hexadecimal number, as it contains the digit H. 0001 is a binary number. 11.5 is a decimal 
number.
Hexadecimal (or “hex”) numbers are based on the digits 0 -9 followed by A -F, with A -F representing the 
decimal numbers 10 -15.
Hexade
cimal0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 A B C D E F
Decimal 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15
Hexadecimal numbers are often represented as pairs, such as E8 and 2F, but 32 can also be a hexadecimal 
number.
For the binary number 11101000 (remember 8 bits are called a byte), split it into two halves, each called a 
nibble. We end up with 1110 and 1000.
Binary 1 1 1 0 1 0 0 0
8 4 2 1 8 4 2 1
8+4+2+0=14 8+0+0+0=
0
Hex value E 
(from the table 
above)Hex value 
8 (from 
the table 
above)
Hex E8
Decimal (Left hex value x 
16)+(right hex 
value)=decimal 
valueE(decimal 
14)*16=224224
+8=232E8 
(hex)=232 
(decimal)
The table below shows how to easily convert binary to hex to decimal, using the nibbles.
Binary numbers have two values: 0 (for “OFF”) and 1 (for “ON”). An individual binary number (0 or 1) is called 
a bit. Combine eight bits together and you have a byte. The computer breaks everything down into 0s and 
1s –characters, video, music, images, everything. When you type in the uppercase A, the keyboard sends 
01000001 to the processor. The processor knows that it is 65, which is the American Standard Code for 
Information Interchange (ASCII) number for the character A.
Here’s how it happens: In the diagram below, 0 represents a light bulb that is turned off and 1 represents a 
light bulb that is turned on. If a light bulb is turned on, it has a value associated with its position. The first 
light bulb on the left has a value of 128, the second has a value of 64, the third has a value 32, and so on. You 
add up the values of the light bulbs that are turned on and you get the decimal equivalent.
The diagram shows how the binary value 01000001 has a decimal equivalent of 65, 00001111 has a decimal 
equivalent of 15, and 11000000 has a decimal equivalent of 192.
Objective:
IT Concepts and Terminology
Sub-Objective:
Compare and contrast notational systems.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 2: How Computers Store Data: 
Notational Systems, Hexadecimal
Previous
Next
Go to Summary
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
   Comptia ITF+ Page 438    
QBank Home
Question #40 of 75 QuestionId #1577493
Which of the following programming concepts are associated with containers? (Choose two.)
A)Arrays
B)Constants
C)Vectors
D)Methods
Explanation
Arrays and vectors are programming concepts associated with containers.
Vectors are one column or one row in an array. In essence, they are a single -dimensional array.
Arrays are multi -dimensional containers for data. For two -dimensional arrays, the array address is the row 
number and column, as illustrated in the following exhibit. Array addresses can be used in programs in the 
same manner as variables. A note of caution: Arrays begin numbering their rows and columns at 0, not 1.
The following exhibit is an example of a three -dimensional array. In addition to a row and column in the 
address, there is a page number as the final number in the address.
Constants work like variables except that the value stored does not change (the value remains constant). For 
example, you can define (assign) the value of 3.14159 to the constant PI, 5280 to the constant FeetPerMile, 
or 28.3495 to GramsPerOunce.
Methods are associated with the programming concept of Objects. Methods define a procedure or what an 
object can do. Methods for a Shoe object could be Walk, Run, or Dance.
Objective:
Software Development Concepts
Sub-Objective:
Explain the purpose and use of programming concepts.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 24: Explain the Purpose and Use of 
Programming Concepts, Containers
Previous
Next
Go to Summary
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
Question #41 of 75 QuestionId #1257520
Which of the following policies require that your password contain upper case and lower case letters, 
numbers, and special characters?
A)Password reuse across sites
B)Password history
C)Password expiration
D)Password complexity
Explanation
Password complexity rules include requirements such as upper case and lower case characters, numbers, and 
special symbols. Many organizations have password policies that require a certain level of complexity. 
@nimalCrack3r$ would be an example of a complex password with 14 characters.
Password reuse across sites occurs when the same password (or one with only a slight modification) is used 
on multiple web sites. This practice, while convenient, represents a significant security risk. To mitigate that 
risk, use a password manager.
Password history policies do not allow you to use your most recent passwords. Often, these are limited to a 
certain number of old passwords, 5 for example. In such a case, the organization would examine your new 
password and compare it to a list of your five most recent passwords. If the new password is found on the 
list, an error message would be displayed telling you that you need to select a different password.
Password expiration policies dictate that passwords should expire from time to time. A password becomes 
easier to crack as the length of time it is used increases. Highly secure organizations might require that you 
change your password on a weekly basis, but a password best practice could be to change your password 
every 30 days, based on the day of the month you were hired.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 439    
Objective:
Security
Sub-Objective:
Explain password best practices.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 32: Explain Password Best 
Practices, Password Complexity
Previous
Next
Go to Summary
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
Question #42 of 75 QuestionId #1257362
Which of the following data types is capable of representing only a single character, such as the letter A, the 
“(“ symbol, or the number 9?
A)string
B)integer
C)float
D)char
Explanation
The char data type is capable of storing only a single character, such as the letter A, the “(“ symbol, or the 
number 9. If you need to store multiple characters, use the string data type.
The string data type can store multiple char data types, such as the address “1967 Elm Street”. Other 
examples where you would use a string include city, state, province, country, names, descriptions, and titles –
anything that is not numeric and cannot be represented using a single character. While it is possible for a 
string to contain a single character, it is differentiated from the char data type because a string is capable of 
storing multiple characters and takes up more space or memory.
The integer data type contains whole numbers only. Integers do not contain any partial numbers (fractions). 
Examples of integers include 104 (the number of keys on a keyboard), 2 (the number of wheels on a 
motorcycle), 30 (the number days in June), and 12 (the number of items in a dozen).
The float data type contains multiple numerical digits and a decimal point. It is designed to hold numbers that 
cannot be expressed as whole numbers. For example, 3 divided by 2 is 1.5. Attempting to express 1.5 as an 
integer would force the value of 1 or 2, which would not be accurate. Other examples where the float data 
type would be appropriate include the number Pi (3.14159…) and 98.6 (body temperature in degrees 
Fahrenheit). While a float data type may contain a single numerical digit, the capacity that a float can contain 
fractional numbers is what separates it from the integer data type.
Objective:
IT Concepts and Terminology
Sub-Objective:
Compare and contrast fundamental data types and their characteristics.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 3: Compare and Contrast 
Fundamental Data Types and Their Characteristics, Char
Previous
Next
Go to Summary
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
Question #43 of 75 QuestionId #1577440
You arrive to assist a user with a problem that was reported. What is one of the first things you should do?
   Comptia ITF+ Page 440    
You arrive to assist a user with a problem that was reported. What is one of the first things you should do?
A)Research the knowledge base.
B)Establish a plan of action.
C)Divide and conquer.
D)Question the user.
Explanation
When you arrive to assist a user with a problem that was reported, one of the first things you should do is 
question the user. When questioning the user, one of the best things to keep in mind is that the user can be 
very helpful if they realize you are not there to accuse, place blame, or get them in trouble. Your questions 
should not make the user feel like it is an interrogation. The questions should be asked in a non -threatening 
manner.  
Some things that you can do to make the questioning process go easier:
Refrain from using the high -level technical terminology (jargon) that intimidates the user and makes 
them feel like you are talking down to them. Speak to them using layman’s terms.•
Speak with confidence and a positive attitude. “Sure, I can get this back up and running. Let me take a 
look”.•
Take notes, and pay attention to what the user is saying. Remember, they called you because they 
tried to fix it themselves and were unable to do so, or the problem was beyond their scope of abilities. 
Try not to interrupt –let them get it all out.•
If you must use your phone or computer, make sure it is for business purposes, and let the user know 
why. Nothing tells a user that their problem is not important to you like you making a call and saying, 
“Are we going out for pizza or Chinese tonight?”.•
There is no need to pass judgment on the customer or get into an argument. If they say something that 
indicates they do not have your knowledge, belittling them is not going to get them to cooperate with 
you.•
If you are invading their personal space, ask permission first. The same thing applies if you have to sit 
at their computer, move papers on their desk, or slide a personal item out of the way. If the situation 
was reversed, you would appreciate being treated with courtesy.•
Remember that you are providing a service, you are there to take away their fear and frustration, and 
you are doing a job that is important to the organization, just as they are doing. Neither is more 
important than the other.•
You should research the knowledge base/Internet after you have identified the problem. This will allow you 
to see if a similar problem has occurred before and what others did to fix it. Doing a little research and 
finding what has worked for others (and what has not worked) can save a lot of valuable time.
Establish a plan of action to resolve the problem and identify potential effects would be one of the 
subsequent steps after you have identified the problem. Identifying potential effects is an important activity. 
As an example, you have identified that users have difficulty remembering passwords. Your action plan is to 
remove the password rules. However, this could have a disastrous effect on the security of the organization. 
Perhaps a better plan would be to use an alternate identification method, such as biometrics or secure cards. 
Either of these methods could resolve the issue without compromising organizational security.
Divide and conquer is one of the possible activities in establishing a theory of probable cause. If there are 
multiple symptoms or issues, look at each one individually as opposed to trying to solve them all at once. As 
you are testing, only make one change at a time instead of changing multiple things at the same time. If you 
cannot print, start with issues at the printer. If the printer seems to be operating properly, check the network 
connection or the USB cable. It those are not the culprit, then check things on the computer, such as printer 
selection, driver updates, and the computer’s connection path to the printer.
The troubleshooting steps can be represented visually by the following exhibit:
Objective:
IT Concepts and Terminology
Sub-Objective:
Explain the troubleshooting methodology.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 7: Explain the Troubleshooting 
Methodology, Identify the Problem
Previous
Next
   Comptia ITF+ Page 441    
Next
Go to Summary
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
Question #44 of 75 QuestionId #1257416
Which device address changes as you move from network to network?
A)HTTP
B)DNS
C)MAC address
D)IP address
Explanation
Your Internet Protocol (IP) address will change as you move from network to network. The IPv4 address is a 
series of 4 numbers, ranging from 0 through 255 and separated by dots, that identifies your computer on a 
network. An example of an IP address is 192.168.0.1. Every device that is on a network is assigned an IP 
address by that network. A portion of the IP address identifies the network and a portion identifies the 
individual device. In the example above, 192.168.0 is the network and 1 identifies the device on the network.  
The media access control (MAC) address is permanently assigned to the network card (wired or wireless) 
connected to your device. Think of a MAC address as similar to a vehicle identification number (VIN) number 
for a vehicle. It is represented by six pairs of hexadecimal digits, such as C8 -D3-FF-DD-4B-C1. The first three 
pairs represent the manufacturer of the network card and the last three pairs represent the production serial 
number.  
When you type a website address into a web browser, the Domain Name System (DNS) is responsible for 
translating the characters into an IP address. The website address you type in is called a uniform resource 
locator (URL). The website is actually found using an IP address. DNS is responsible for the URL -to-IP 
translation. A network of DNS servers maintains a list of domains and their associated IP addresses.  
Hyper Text Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is used by the web browser to retrieve a coded web page from a server 
and display that web page in the browser. When you enter a website address (URL) in the browser, DNS 
translates it into an IP address, finds the server with that IP address, and HTTP brings back the coded web 
page and displays it to the user.
Objective:
Infrastructure
Sub-Objective:
Explain basic networking concepts.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 14: Explain Basic Networking 
Concepts, Device Addresses
Previous
Next
Go to Summary
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
Question #45 of 75 QuestionId #1257523
Encrypting email is one type of data -in-transit encryption. What does email use for encryption? (Choose all 
that apply.)
A)S/MIME
B)SSL
C)PGP
D)AES
Explanation
Both Secure/Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (S/MIME) and Pretty Good Privacy (PGP) are used for 
email encryption. The following exhibit shows the S/MIME process:
Secure Socket Layer (SSL) is used by secure websites using HTTPS.
Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) is used for Wi -Fi encryption.
   Comptia ITF+ Page 442    
Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) is used for Wi -Fi encryption.
Objective:
Security
Sub-Objective:
Explain common uses of encryption.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 33: Explain Common Uses of 
Encryption, Data in Transit.
Previous
Next
Go to Summary
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
Question #46 of 75 QuestionId #1257373
The number 65 is a value. It may mean a score on an exam, the distance in kilometers to the next city on a 
highway, or the American Society for Computer Information Interchange (ASCII) value for the capital letter A. 
In this instance, how would you characterize the number 65?
A)The number 65 is information.
B)The number 65 is a float.
C)The number 65 has context.
D)The number 65 is data.
Explanation
In this instance, the number 65 is a value that represents raw data or a fact. It must have some context 
applied to it before it can have meaning and be made useful. Only the context will determine what the value 
of the number means.
There is a difference between data and information. Data is simply a value or a fact, such as a number, a 
character, or a word. Data becomes information after the value or fact has meaning or context applied to it. 
As a case in point, consider a test score of 65 points. If the score is 65 points out of 70 possible points, the 
score is a good score. If it represents 65 points out of 100 possible points, it might represent a failing score. In 
both of these examples, 65 is the data, the raw information, the fact. When you apply context or meaning to 
the data, (the raw score as compared to the possible score), the data becomes information.
The number 65 is not information. It is raw data or a fact. For it to have meaning or be made useful, there 
must be some context applied to it. 65 people in line, 65 degrees Fahrenheit, or 65 students enrolled in a 
class are very different even though the value of 65 is the same.
A float is a data type. The float data type contains multiple numerical digits and a decimal point. It is designed 
for numbers that cannot be expressed as whole numbers. For example, 3 divided by 2 is 1.5. Attempting to 
express 1.5 as an integer would force the value of either 1 or 2, which would not be accurate. Other examples 
where the float data type would be appropriate include the number Pi (3.14159…) and 98.6 (body 
temperature in degrees Fahrenheit). While a float data type may contain a single numerical digit, a float’s 
ability to contain fractional numbers separates it from the integer data type.
The number 65 has no context. It is a raw fact or a value, and has no other meaning than that value. Stating 
that you have 65 people in line, the temperature is 65 degrees Fahrenheit, or there are 65 students enrolled 
in a class represents context applied to the number 65.
Objective:
IT Concepts and Terminology
Sub-Objective:
Explain the value of data and information.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 5: Explain the Value of Data and 
Information, Relationship of Data to Creating Information
Previous
Next
Go to Summary
   Comptia ITF+ Page 443    
Go to Summary
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
Question #47 of 75 QuestionId #1577490
You need to write a program that validates an entered password and denies access to the system until the 
correct password is entered. Which of the following logic components would you use?
A)Pseudocode
B)Sequence
C)Branching
D)Looping
Explanation
You would use looping for a program that validates an entered password and denies access to the system 
until the correct password is entered. Looping allows a program to repeat a series of commands either while 
a condition remains true (DO WHILE) or until a certain condition is met (DO UNTIL). A FOR loop will allow a 
series of instructions to repeat a certain number of times within a range of values, e.g., FOR StudentCount=1 
to 30. The following exhibit shows a DO WHILE loop.
The following exhibit demonstrates a DO UNTIL loop.
Branching allows a program to proceed in one of two directions based on a yes or no answer to a question. 
Branching can be thought of “If the condition you are testing is true, do this process.” This is called an “IF -
THEN” statement.
Another type of branching also allows for an alternate process if the condition is false, such as “If the 
CourseGrade is greater than 70%, take the next course in the sequence, otherwise repeat the course.” This 
type of branching is called “IF -THEN -ELSE.”
Pseudocode and sequence are organizational techniques, not logic components.
Pseudocode is written without regard to any specific programming language. It represents what the 
programmer wants to do in the simplest of terms, or the action to be performed from a conceptual 
standpoint. Pseudocode must be rewritten in the desired programming language for the computer to use it. 
Here is an example of pseudocode for a retail transaction:
Enter the Item Number.1.
Find the Item Number in the Inventory database.2.
Get the Item Price and the Item Description.3.
Display the Item Price and Item Description.4.
Enter the Quantity Sold for that Item.5.
Multiply the Item Price by the Quantity Sold.6.
Save the result of the calculation as Item Subtotal.7.
Display the Item Price, Item Description, Quantity Sold, and Item Subtotal.8.
Add the Item Subtotal to the Order Total.9.
Ask if there is another item. 10.
If there is another item, repeat steps 1 -10, until there are no more items. 11.
A sequence is a group of instructions that are executed one after the other, without branching or looping. A 
sequence for calculating gross pay could look like this:
Objective:
Software Development Concepts
Sub-Objective:
Given a scenario, use programming organizational techniques and interpret logic.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 23: Using Programming 
Organizational Techniques and Interpret Logic, Logic Components.
Previous
Next
Go to Summary
Offline QBank
   Comptia ITF+ Page 444    
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
Question #48 of 75 QuestionId #1577451
Where would you most likely NOT find an ARM processor?
A)Mobile device
B)Raspberry Pi
C)Tablet computer
D)Windows 64 -bit system
Explanation
You would most likely NOT find an ARM processor in a Windows 64 -bit system.  ARM processors are used in 
mobile devices, and not in Windows desktop and server computers. Windows 64 -bit systems include 
Windows desktop and client computers.
An Advanced Reduced Instruction Set Computer (RISC) Machine (ARM) processor performs less complex 
instructions than Complex Instruction Set Computers (CISC). ARM processors are found in tablet computers, 
mobile devices, and single -board computers, such as the Raspberry Pi. CISC processors are found in Windows, 
Mac, and Linux computers.
The following exhibit shows a Raspberry Pi single -board computer:
Objective:
Infrastructure
Sub-Objective:
Explain the purpose of common internal computing components.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter10: Explain the Purpose of 
Common Internal Computing Components: CPU
Previous
Next
Go to Summary
Offline QBank
Synchronize
QBank Home
Question #49 of 75 QuestionId #1257358
Which of these is the decimal equivalent of the binary number 01000001?
A)1,000,001
B)41
C)2
D)65
Explanation
The decimal equivalent of the binary number 01000001 is 65.
Binary numbers have two values: 0 (for “OFF”) and 1 (for “ON”). An individual binary number (0 or 1) is called 
a bit. Combine eight bits together and you have a byte. The computer breaks everything down into 0s and 
1s –characters, video, music, images, everything. When you type in the uppercase A, the keyboard sends 
01000001 to the processor. The processor knows that it is 65, which is the American Standard Code for 
Information Interchange (ASCII) number for the character A.
Here’s how it happens: In the diagram below, 0 represents a light bulb that is turned off and 1 represents a 
light bulb that is turned on. If a light bulb is turned on, it has a value associated with its position. The first 
light bulb on the left has a value of 128, the second has a value of 64, the third has a value 32, and so on. You 
add up the values of the light bulbs that are turned on and you get the decimal equivalent.
The diagram shows how the binary value 01000001 has a decimal equivalent of 65, 00001111 has a decimal 
equivalent of 15, and 11000000 has a decimal equivalent of 192.
The decimal numbering system is the one that we are most familiar with. It consists of the digits 0 -9. In the 
decimal number 6125, 5 represents how many 1’s, 2 represents how many 10’s, 1 represents how many 
100’s, and 6 represents the number of 1000’s, as seen below
Decimal values by position (6125)
1000 100 10 1 Value
   Comptia ITF+ Page 445    
1000 100 10 1 Value
6 1 2 5 6000+100+20+5=6125
6000 100 20 5
Hexadecimal (or “hex”) numbers are based on the digits 0 -9 followed by A -F, with A -F representing the 
decimal numbers 10 -15.
Hexade
cimal0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 A B C D E F
Decimal 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15
Hexadecimal numbers are often represented as pairs, such as E8 and 2F, but 32 can also be a hexadecimal 
number.
For the binary number 11000000 (remember eight bits are called a byte), split it into two halves, with each 
being called a nibble. We end up with 1100 and 0000.
Binary 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0
8 4 2 1 8 4 2 1
8+4+0+0 =12 0+0+0+0 =
0
Hex value C 
(from the table 
above)Hex value 0 
(from the 
table 
above)
Hex C0
Decimal (Left hex value 
x 16)+(right 
hex value)
C(decimal 12)*
16+0=192
The table below shows how to easily convert binary to hex to decimal, using the nibbles.
Objective:
IT Concepts and Terminology
Sub-Objective:
Compare and contrast notational systems.
References:
CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ FC0 -U61 Cert Guide Premium Edition, Chapter 2: How Computers Store Data: 
Notational Systems, Binary
Previous
Next
Go to Summary
   Comptia ITF+ Page 446    
LAN (Local Area Network) 
Workgroups –split LAN into smaller logical zones
Arranged alongsde department divisions –accounting, marketing, IT. 
Router –connects multiple LANs
Common Network Components
Workstations –multiple CPU, resources available over network
Client Machine –any device on the network that can ask for a resource like a printer or other 
hosts from a server or workstation
Servers –At the service of the network, maintain and control network
File Server –stores and dispenses files
Mail Server –Network's post office, handles email functions
Print Server –Manages Printers on the network
Web Server –HTTPS for storing web content and accessing pages
Fax Server –sends and receives faxes over Network
Application Server –Manages Network Applications
Telephony Server –call center and routing 
Proxy Server –Handles internet connection
Hosts
TCP/IP -speak, host means any network device with an IP address
Network Types
MAN (Metropolitan Area Network) -Network covering area, used to interconnect buildings and 
facilities over carrier provider, Concentrated WAN
WAN (Wide Area Network)
The internet is the largest WAN
• WA s usually need a router port or ports. 
• WA s span larger geographic areas and/or can link disparate locations. • WA s are 
usually slower. 
• We can choose when and how long we connect to a WA . A LA  is all or nothing —our 
workstation is connected to it either permanently or not at all, although most of us have 
dedicated WAN links now. 
• WA s can utilize either private or public data transport media such as phone lines.
Internetwork –type of LAN or WAN that connects a bunch of networks, or intranets. 
1. Intro to Networks
Friday, February 07, 2025 3:35 PM
   Comptia Network+ Page 447    
Short Answer: From a development standpoint, we're ready tomorrow. However, with Andre out, he’ll 
likely need time to complete testing once he's back (you can better estimate how long this will take). We 
can aim to install again on Friday afternoon. Both Zach and Andre will verify that everything is working 
properly in production on Friday and over the weekend.•
Outstanding Defect:
Issue: Interrupted flow of Spec changes from PDM to BOM Portal. •
Root Cause: Still undetermined. •
Fix History: Applied fix in production, but reverted after BOM creation issues (the issues persisted 
post -revert, but then resolved themselves and the business recalled the tickets).•
Fix Detail: Restarts connection when a disconnect is detected. Need to reimplement since the 
BOM creation issue is unrelated. (Timeline pending —see above) .•
Alternate Fix:
Revert to the old website (requires business approval acknowledging the risk of not fully DR'ing 
BOM Portal).•
Risk: Staying on the old website poses a potential audit issue because we can’t fully recover BOM 
Portal in a disaster. This is why DR work has been prioritized over project work.•
If risk is low, this is the solution. If high, we will reimplement the connection restart fix.•
Remaining Work:
Update ZPARM table.•
Finalize documentation.•
User migration.•Steering Committe Meeting
Monday, September 16, 2024 11:43 AM
   Steer Committee -Finance, Controlling, Costing Page 448    
Master Formulation
Daily process planning
Schema complete
Blazor framework
Phase 1 pass to production changed to 2/01
Actively working to get support up to speed1/15/2025
Wednesday, January 15, 2025 9:58 AM
   Steer Committee -Finance, Controlling, Costing Page 449    
2025 -02-19_IT FI -CO Costing and Payroll Steerco.pptx
SteerCo to be held remotely via Teams
2/17/2025
Monday, February 17, 2025 10:53 AM
   Steer Committee -Finance, Controlling, Costing Page 450    
UI/UX criteria check with Kay on criteria for upcoming release
Components which need to be reevaluated 
Demo home page for current schema
Work with business ot show them high fidelity designs
SAP tables deprecated is not gone just deprecated when they will be used, jamon thinks impact might 
Primary SAP materials can come from PDM as Seconds formulations
Work with ingestion team to get more BOM tables in GCP
PDM interface for BOM P guarantee of delivery
Implementation of Data Queries in Power BI
Only use GCP as data source
Need to standardize GPC models from BOMP according to what will be needed for the reconciliation 
processes
**Need to hold PDM Accountable to what they are committing to**3/14/2025
Wednesday, March 12, 2025 1:01 PM
   Steer Committee -Finance, Controlling, Costing Page 451    
BOM Portal –Master Formulation
BOM Portal –Audit Recon Report
BOM Schema Design Kickoff
BOM Portal biggest risk Is specright impact. 
We have been trying to mitigate risk by attending all sessions
PDM API structure fix validation we produce through formulation innny inv
Delivery on PDM sideon the spec right
Unknowns with spec right has potential to add requirements to scope, change request will be needed. 
Spec Right on BOM. 
Where are we storing master data formal design?
Current challenges with Reconciliation report at component level:
Querying data on SAP side
Understanding how to build the structure of a table based on it's text table from SAP 
ingested in GCP 
Ensuring filters are appropriately used
Ensuring joins are filtered correctly 
SAP tables are normalized and often require multiple fields to join as a composite key, as 
many of the tables do not have a distinct matching ID or key
Lots of cross joins 
Sanity checking a system where we know discrepancies do exist in the data itself 
Working with a database that is in a different code language than SQL
The SAP database primarily interacts with the ABAP (Advanced Business Application Programming) 
although 6/30/2025
Monday, June 30, 2025 12:57 PM
   Steer Committee -Finance, Controlling, Costing Page 452    
Finished Data requirements gathering with cost accounting
User interviews BOM template creation, tbd based on data schema finishing, UX/UI
We need to list something about the reconciliation report, current progress and risks and partnership 
with data architect moving forward.
Remaining 
WorkBusiness sign off for functional requirements refactoring functional descriptions 
Remodel BOM view UX design to accommodate business 
Material API view deployment
PDM API data inconsistencies –Additional Findings // Still seeing problems with PDM 
action plans, expectations where defined completed and wasn't accurate. If expectation 
was for 2 systems to interact
BOM Portal Recon Report. 
Milestones/Achievements
Remaining Work/Task
Risk: Doug found an issue with finance boms not displaying the correct quantities in the report, so 
refactoring the query based on Phuongs recommendations. Additional Findings. This report has 
taken away from my core responsibilities as Product Owner 
Spent additional time refactoring query 
Are we putting enough emphasis on the reconciliation report? 8/11/2025 IT Fico
Monday, August 11, 2025 1:04 PM
   Steer Committee -Finance, Controlling, Costing Page 453    
E-Commerce through Direct Fullfillment
Polo
Polo –Ecommerce past 30 years
What works what doesn’t, patterning somebody else smarter has done
Entry level 2 -5 year project paid $4 grand a month 5 -10 hours of work a week. 
They have a business team. 
I think there's a potential 
Ideal side hustle
Proven track record of working 
Optimal opportunity would be mentorship. Wisdom and guidance Learn the skills you need to 
learn to be effective. a.
Flexible works with schedule add to plate b.
Sell a product that market's already created, I don’t want to reinvent the wheel. Home health 
beauty and agriculture. Consumer plant based usd organic good ingredients in product bans 
excess neutralite artistry. The market is there c.
Polo not specific want's to travel d.
Polo all of the above. e.
So Christian grew up in this, private school homeschooled opportunities. 
First person to go to college in his family psychology. Relationships are everything. 
Graduate student at the UofA. 
Matt is christians godfather was able to retire in his 40's from walmart corporate, 
Danny made 250,000 It’s a scam it’s a pyramid scheme whatever. 
Skillset End result that they created at the end of their life
3 pillars:
5 year period great success
50% increase in pay d
Mentorship –coachable and teachable 
Apprenticeship Program –Complimentary entry level to the business. 
10% of risk tarnished Entry Meeting
Tuesday, June 24, 2025 8:40 AM
   Polo Business Opportunity Page 454    
10% of risk tarnished 
Direct selling network modeling as a business model 
Scalable business –customer base repeat order schedule subscription model 100 customers 
Scaling and having a team of people selling because of your referral 
A small team of 10 can put you at significant amount of income 
The skills it takes to scale a business
Robert Kiwasoki Rich dad Poor dad formost authority with passive income 18 books 
Catch flow quadrant 
Business for the 21stcentury
Tristian Gazel in dallas fortworth. He's doing a business prospectus meeting. Just to see his perspective 
and to get a better feel 
If my buddy will be putting people underneath me. 
Pick the top 5 mlm refine it get really good at it and what stops me from opening up my own digital 
marketplace
The quickest way to lose friends is AMWAY
   Polo Business Opportunity Page 455    
Amway
NSA 
BeachBody
Direct Sellers Association
Why do you continue to drive 
Key note speakerBeach Body
Wednesday, June 25, 2025 2:16 PM
   Polo Business Opportunity Page 456    
Main Message:
If you want long -term financial freedom, job security won’t cut it —you need to shift from being an 
employee (E quadrant) to a business owner or investor (B and I quadrants). The most accessible path? 
Network marketing.
Part 1: Take Control of Your Future
The job market is no longer reliable. Even "secure" fields are cutting jobs.•
The Cashflow Quadrant shows four income types: •
E (Employee) –job security •
S (Self -employed) –independence •
B (Business owner) –builds systems that generate income •
I (Investor) –money makes more money •
Transitioning to B or I is critical for wealth -building and freedom. •
Entrepreneurs thrive in recessions because they take initiative and innovate.•
Wealth is built through passive income , not active labor. •
Part 2: One Business —Eight Wealth -Building Assets
Network marketing provides:
Real -World Business Education –learn sales, mindset, and time/money management. 1.
Personal Development –face your fears, become a better communicator. 2.
Supportive Community –surround yourself with people who want to see you succeed. 3.
Network Power –leverage Metcalfe’s Law; value comes from your network, not the product. 4.
Scalable, Duplicable Business –low cost, high growth potential if done right. 5.
Leadership Training –real wealth follows those who can inspire and lead others. 6.
Wealth Creation System –build a business, reinvest, acquire assets like real estate. 7.
Dream Fulfillment –your mindset and dream size determine your success potential. 8.
Part 3: Your Future Starts Now
Choose your network marketing company wisely —leadership matters more than the product. •
The system thrives because people win together , not by outcompeting. •
Financial intelligence , not just effort, determines wealth. •
Network marketing is a business model that democratizes wealth -building. •
 Discussion Points
Is network marketing still relevant today?9.
With so many schemes and saturated markets, is it still a viable route?•
Do you agree that jobs are no longer reliable sources of income? 10.
Are passive income models realistic for the average person? 11.
Can leadership and communication really be learned through network marketing? 12.
Does the book downplay the risk and difficulty of succeeding in network marketing? 13.
What other business models might offer similar wealth -building assets? 14.
Does the B/I quadrant shift work for everyone, or only for a certain mindset? 15.Business of 21stCentury 
Tuesday, June 24, 2025 8:40 AM
   Polo Business Opportunity Page 457    
Does the B/I quadrant shift work for everyone, or only for a certain mindset? 15.
 What I Think
Strengths : •
The quadrant framework is powerful and easy to understand.•
Emphasizing mindset over tactics is key —many people never make the internal shift. •
Real -world skills like communication, leadership, and resilience arevaluable and often learned outside 
traditional education.•
Critiques : •
The book oversells network marketing as a cure -all. •
It doesn’t fully address how hard it is to succeed in MLMs —especially with market saturation. •
Not everyone thrives in sales or recruiting; it requires a very specific personality and a ton of social 
capital.•
It downplays the risk of burnout and rejection in early phases. •
Bottom Line :
This is a motivational blueprint , not a business plan. If you read it as a call to take ownership of your 
income and mindset, it’s powerful. But if you take it as a direct recommendation to join any MLM, you 
need to proceed with caution and do your due diligence .•
   Polo Business Opportunity Page 458    
Project Kickoff -PR102497 BOM Portal -Master Formulation 06 -10.pptx (sharepoint.com)
Project Kickoff -PR102497: BOM Portal -Master Formulation
Project Summary:
Over the past 15 years, the data structure for the BOM Portal's "Recipe" has significantly deviated from the 
requirements for BOM (Bill of Materials) maintenance. This has resulted in key issues like the absence of a 
dedicated BOM entity, data duplication, and inconsistent business rules, causing data inconsistencies, 
application -layer defects, and unexpected interactions.
Planned Recipe -to-BOM Schema Migration
To address these issues, the migration will:
Remove inaccurate formulation data from BOMs.•
Create a distinct BOM entity.•
Introduce a new "BOM Template" tier associated with cost centers.•
Phase 1 of the Project
Objectives:
Complete the first quarter of the migration work.•
Provide immediate critical benefits by resolving the most pressing issues.•
Legacy Structure:
Recipe: Current implementation only includes recipes, not BOMs. •
Legacy PDM Material: Contains one record for each material, plant process, BOM type/version, and 
corporate formulation.•
BOM Template: Not present in the legacy structure. •
Goal Structure:
Current Issue: Recipes are incorrectly used instead of BOMs, resulting in functional overlap and 
inconsistencies. Recipes include outdated or non -authoritative formulation data that is frequently 
modified.•
Revised Implementation:
Store external system data separately from BOMs, updated only to reflect changes from the source 
of record.•
Introduce an intermediate "Template" layer aligned with plant cost centers to reduce data 
duplication and ensure consistency.•
Confine versions to version -specific data only. ••
Key Notes on Bill of Materials (BOM) and Formulations
1. Plant -specific Material Numbering:
Each plant determines its material numbers according to Tyson standards, always in an 11 -digit format. •
2. BOM Portal Reduction of Complexity:
Simplify cost accounting, production, maintenance, and accounting processes for Tyson's materials.•
3. Quality Assurance (QA):
Avoid using entries in QA total specifications as these changes are incorrect.•
4. Material Specifications:
Remove steps related to processes derived from formulation specifications.•
5. Corp Material:
Corp materials contain formulations but may not always have a BOM.•
Formulations originate from Layer 1 Formulations.•
The sequence in the BOM is replicated and repeated.•
Data Structure and Redesign
Objective: Redesign data structuring and scaffolding in the BOM portal. Define relationships and links between 
sequences.
Recipe and Formulations: Identify corp steps in recipes; "Corp" refers to a formulation. The final output is 
the finished good, ready for shipment.•
Linkage Check: Verify if an item is a formulation or a set product ready for use. Finished goods' positions 
propagate to all BOMs created.•
Yields and Inputs: Determine inputs that go into the recipe BOM. Finished goods may have only one 
formulation or multiple formulations.•
Legacy System Integration
PDM (Product Data Management): Serves as the source of record for material formulations. •
Updated PDM Data Handling: PDM data is now translated into BOM format by an interceptor in the BOM 
portal.•
PLM (Product Lifecycle Management): Acts as an intermediary, receiving the latest version of 
formulations in XML format. The BOM portal translates this data without relying on the destination.•
Roles & Responsibilities
Cost Accounting Analyst•
Developers / Architecture
Lead construction of enhancements based on design and specifications.•
Support unit testing, troubleshooting, and technical cutover to production.••
IT Development Manager
Provide support to Technical/Analyst team members and ensure adherence to standards and 
processes.•
Serve as an escalation point for issues.•
Accountable for successful system delivery of the project.••
IT Business Analyst
Participate in design validation sessions and testing.•
Provide functional and technical knowledge in support of design, development, and testing 
activities.••
Legacy and Goal Structures Overview
Legacy Structure:
Internally, there is no "BOM" in the current implementation; only recipes exist.•
Recipes span BOMs, and BOMs span recipes, but recipes may exist without BOMs. Recipes contain non -
authoritative copies of corporate formulations, regularly edited due to various structural and quantitative 
inputs.•
Goal Structure:
The revised implementation will store data from external systems separately from BOMs and 
update only with changes propagated from the source of record.•
An intermediate "Template" layer corresponding to plant cost centers will provide additional data 
de-duplication and consistency guarantees.•
Versions will only include version -specific data. •••
Conclusion
The migration from the existing "Recipe" structure to a robust BOM -based schema will significantly improve 
data accuracy, consistency, and application performance, aligning the BOM portal with current business 
requirements.Project Scope & Kickoff 
Tuesday, August 27, 2024 3:14 PM
   BOM PORTAL Page 459    
Formulation
What is a BOM
Explanation of BOM Portal, How BOM's work 
Authoritive data and BOMS 
What's being sent from BOMP to SAP vs what's notHow to teach a KT
Wednesday, May 07, 2025 12:28 PM
   BOM PORTAL Page 460    
Master Data Review
Monday, May 19, 2025 10:31 AM
   BOM PORTAL Page 461    
Attendees:
Michael Williams
Deepthi M 
Reviewed Protein Column vtext is being pulled from EAP. 
Coming from TDIM_MTRL_V1
Coming from TDIM_Protein_Hier_V1
Joined with MANDT and PRODH
Protein Component Detail Description
Theres some issues with the API that deepthi is creating and validations with EAP are not checking out 
and we are trying to figure out why. 
Issues we are seeing duplicate entries. 
P0A is current data directly from the current value 
Michael recommended digging into the EAP side
Deepthi will follow up with Nandi for P0A data
Michael wants deepthi to follow up with additional follow up informationClarification on Material and Equipment API
Monday, June 09, 2025 9:26 AM
   BOM PORTAL Page 462    
Refresh and Create 
Upgrade has fixed this issue
Reviewed tickets
Closed a few of the tickets that have been resolved. 11/15/2024
Friday, November 15, 2024 8:29 AM
   BOM PORTAL Page 463    
Completed migration to new URL
Old URL no longer available
Disaster Recovery
Can't create a new product with normal process
Work around implemented
Concise formulation transformation ready for lower environments
New formulation viewer 
DB upgrade completed in production
Remaining
PDM Interface to prod
Batch calculation on formulation viewer
UI/UX commitment with deliverables
Phase 2 gurantee of delivery still needs to be defined. 11/18
Monday, November 18, 2024 10:42 AM
   BOM PORTAL Page 464    
BOM Portal not loadingg –zach provided something yesterday reducing the wait time that will happen 
on signal r looks promising via Harsha
Closed 3141226 –zach is testing fix currently that will notify business when this happens and if it works 
doug will be very happy. He's wanted this for 6 years. Tested email during call
Need to get with delloitte to be able to act on these things, we can send email all day long, but delloitte 
needs to be able to move on that. For now if someone sees it. For now we are support. Hit up zach. 
Signal r disconnects and reconnects. What it targets is when its down and cant reconnect it sends a 
message when it sees that it will send an email to everyone. At a higgh level go to kubernetes restart the
somewhere. They need to set it up from their end and when we pull info from EAP the error will 
resolve. Harsha will reach out to EAP 
Hey Andre just wanted to give you some notes from the meetings today
Zach scheduled UI meetings next week with the business to discuss the expectations of the home 
and admin screen now that we have an idea how we will be implementing role based security 
moving forward. 
Closed 3141226 –Zach tested the fix that notifies via email when signal R is down and cant 
reconnect it'll message an email to everyone then we can take action, Need to get it so Deloitte 
can get up to speed tackling these issues
3128851 –Harsha thinks this is an EAP related issue, will reach out to them and work to resolve 
errorw
8-1211/27/2024 -Notes for Andre
Wednesday, November 27, 2024 8:59 AM
   BOM PORTAL Page 465    
Dice is going to be the messaging going forward, snap logic. 
We want to standardize functionality. Master data compare and reconcile to SAP. Compare bom to 
datalake. What will be the commitment to ensure that bom exist in master data. Currently bom portal 
doesn’t manage this. 
With snap logic we just dumped data into the table, not a lot of visibility into whats happening. More 
information the better.
We want to be in sync with what the material master holds. 
MD-MaterialtoBOM GCP is updated daily, material is updated all the time specific to BOM 
Data synchronization issues. 
Assuming the data is sent over to BOM Portal, do they need to interact with this data 24/7? 
Define a consistent 
What data is pulling from EAP today? EDM API fetches data from EAP. Example payload. Can we query 
direct or create a custom view. If we can do a straight query. They can create a view. 12/2/2024
Monday, December 02, 2024 3:04 PM
   BOM PORTAL Page 466    
Zach Update as far as spec change issues –We have splunk alert in place for spec change issues, saw it 
come through in the test. We will be actually pushing that to p12/3/2024 -Weekly Stand UP 
Tuesday, December 03, 2024 11:30 AM
   BOM PORTAL Page 467    
Andre has provided documents in QA environment they will be doing the same in preprod 
This ticket should be closed by tomorrow. 
Should be promoted to production not during business hours, need to confirm with Andre or John.  They 
are talking about doing it this saturday for a couple hours. They will need a developer from his team in 
case something happens. 
Cant refresh finance version, all other versions refresh. It looks like the code is missing a zero in the 
screenshot. 
Refresh the material table. Unsure how bom portal got the material on material master table fetched 
without UoM.  We can manually enter this with the help of SAP team. We can see if that allows us to 12/17/2024
Tuesday, December 17, 2024 11:32 AM
   BOM PORTAL Page 468    
without UoM.  We can manually enter this with the help of SAP team. We can see if that allows us to 
refresh the recipe. 
12/18/2024
Should be SAP delete only, there shouldn’t be a ticket for it
Probably did a delete instead of terminate
Now we have to put in a ticket to get it out of SAP 
So when deleted the recipe still exists in SAP only terminated recipe get out of SAP
Cant terminate ZCWP from BOM Portal, this is something that’s been on their cards for a while to 
implement
Doug really likes to figure out "root cause" 
   BOM PORTAL Page 469    
We are to use dev data to test production back to existing G
Design dev
Testing with production back to existing BOM Portal or Dev Data to test? 
Non -prod instance testing to begin, incorporating data verification of material master in all lower 
environments 
Goes from PDM to MRP then populates to Material Master, this workflow should be integrated to BOM 
Portal. 
We will need data for validation. 
Alignment with SAP upgrade to check data consistency
One sprint = 10 days, 4.5 months to implement according to analytics timeline
Design, Develop, Promote
The gameplan;
PowerBI pulls data from GCP1/16/2025 Analytics Team
Thursday, January 16, 2025 1:55 PM
   BOM PORTAL Page 470    
Within the Yields component, there is an element that can be observed "Star" Main Ingredient
Buy Vs Make Process. 
When we define a main component, 
There are multiple locations where the Buy vs Make. 
This is the equivalent to a procurement type instance
Material produced in house, produced under specific type E
Purchasable produced out of house, Purchase type F
Yield point
Is it possible to debug when we send through that particular component and main Ingredient 
has something to do. 
What happens before we can
Have we seen this replicated BOM Buy/Make Logic Review
Wednesday, January 22, 2025 10:59 AM
   BOM PORTAL Page 471    
1/22/2025
Align on the requirements for the first approach for BOM -SAP Reconciliation
We need to know what has a BOM in SAP and what has a BOM in BOM Portal
We need to include visibility on phantom BOMs as this report does not include. 
The report gives us material and version (alternative BOM)
We only want valid BOMs in SAP we want anything with an open and active BOM
Need to figure out whats in BOM Portal and whats in SAP 
Make an excel document that shows differences between BOM and SAP BOM&SAP Reconciliation Data Scope Alignment 
Wednesday, January 22, 2025 1:57 PM
   BOM PORTAL Page 472    
**Title**:
Update Functional Spec Document
**Description**: 
As an IT Product Owner, I need to coordinate with the UI/UX and development teams and write the 
functional specification document so that the design and implementation align with the project goals 
and standards. This will be a living document that will be built upon.
**Story Points**: 4
**Tasks**:
-Schedule meetings with UI/UX and development teams.
-Gather requirements and feedback from both teams.
-Draft the initial version of the functional specification document.
-Ensure alignment with project goals and standards.
-I have updated the functional spec to include the designs in figma as well as the report from the 
UX/UI Team. I'm going to focus on the plant select and data grid component •
---
P
**Title**:
Review Documentation on Database Architecture
**Description**:
Review the documentation on topics that have been covered to ensure understanding and alignment 
with the current architecture and future architecture implementation.
**Story Points**: 2
**Tasks**:
-Identify and gather relevant documentation.
-Review the documentation thoroughly.
-Summarize key points and any discrepancies.Jira Cards
Friday, January 24, 2025 6:59 AM
   BOM PORTAL Page 473    
-Summarize key points and any discrepancies.
-Discuss findings with the team if necessary.
I need to get with andre to see where documentation is stored or if he has any reccomendations 
as to where to start with this•
---
**Title**:
Review BOM -SAP Reconciliation
**Story Points**: 2
**Description**:
Review BOM -SAP reconciliation to ensure accuracy and efficiency.
**Tasks**:
-Gather information on the current setup.
-Review the data handling and reconciliation processes.
-Identify any areas for improvement or optimization.
-Document findings and propose changes if necessary.
---I need to get with andre to see where documentation is stored or if he has any reccomendations as to 
where to start with this•
**Title**:
Assist with PDM Review 
**Story Points**: 2
**Description**:
Help checking on PDM, review what has been put into the interface
**Tasks**:
-Coordinate with Andre to understand the current status.
-Review the PDM integration points.
-Assist in completing the deliverables for the integration.
We have a meeting with Allan Slette to go over what is needed from PDM to verify reconciliation and 
formulation statuses. 
   BOM PORTAL Page 474    
formulation statuses. 
I am going to start looking at the Plant Select and Data Grid to put together a functional spec. I will 
coordinate with Kay and Zach on this to gather all relevant information. Me and Andre also have a 
meeting with Allan Slette to go over what is needed from PDM to verify formulation statuses. I still need 
to check with doug about setting up user interviews with plant users. Jerry I sent you something with 
that to review before I send it out if there's anything you want to change or add to it. 
   BOM PORTAL Page 475    
Everything in to be tested has been deleted in the qeue and will need to be added back
Requirements and traceability
security remediation happening as we are doing testing will log defects accordingly
10/25 is d41 connectionSAP Upgrade 9/30 notes
Monday, September 30, 2024 9:44 AM
   BOM PORTAL Page 476    
BOM Portal -Recipe -to-BOM Migration_FS -Draft.docx (sharepoint.com)
Project Overview:
Recipe -to-BOM Migration: Focuses on migrating the existing BOM Portal's structure from 
"Recipes" to "Bill of Materials" (BOM). The current structure is inaccurate, and the goal is to 
redesign it to be fundamentally accurate and align with business requirements.•
Master Formulation: The project revolves around the concept of a "Master Data -Formulation 
Replica," which should not be referred to as "Master -Formulation."•1.
Migration Plan:
Software Update and Data Migration: Implement new software platforms and design a new 
schema that aligns with business requirements. Migrate data from the old schema to the new 
functional schema.•
User -Case Migration: Transition from "Soft" migration to a more manual user -case migration 
approach.•2.
Plant -Specific Migration: The approach will involve selecting specific plants to isolate and migrate 
materials.•
Objectives:
Core Redesign: Redefine the core functionality of the BOM Portal, transitioning from Recipes to 
BOMs.•
Data Structure Consistency: Enforce a single approved schema for BOMs and ensure all BOM 
entities have consistent data relationships (one driver, one root step node, etc.).•3.
BOM Templates and Versions:
Unique BOM Structures: Each combination of plant, material, and cost center should have a 
unique BOM structure.•
BOM Templates as Drivers: BOM Templates serve as the "driver" models that define the 
reference for BOM versions.•4.
Validation and Consistency:5.
Formulation and BOM Validation: The document outlines rules for BOM consistency, validation of 
material types, SAP version numbers, date ranges, etc.•
Inventory Points and Material Requirements: There are specific rules around inventory points, such as 
ZCWPs (Costing Work in Process) and other inventory point types.•
Creation and Editing Rules:
Templates and Versions: Procedures for creating and editing BOM Templates and Versions are 
specified, including rules for data retention, step yields, material data, etc.•
Submission to SAP: The document details conditions and requirements for submitting BOMs to 
SAP.•6.
Local Change Management:
Enterprise Change Management: Describes how local changes to BOMs should be managed, with 
a focus on maintaining consistency and avoiding overlapping changes.•7.
Questions for Clarification
Migration Approach:
What are the specific reasons for transitioning from a "Soft" migration to a manual user -case 
migration approach? Are there particular challenges with the "Soft" migration that the manual 
approach addresses better?•
Could you clarify what is meant by "user expense" when discussing migration procedures? Does 
this refer to additional workload for users, potential costs, or something else?•1.
BOM and Formulation Relationship:
The document mentions that "Formulation is not an aspect of a BOM," but it also talks about •2.Recipe to BOM Migration
Friday, September 06, 2024 1:36 PM
   BOM PORTAL Page 477    
The document mentions that "Formulation is not an aspect of a BOM," but it also talks about 
preserving references to formulations and formulation -associated attributes. How does this 
relationship work in practice? Will formulations be directly linked to BOMs or just referenced?•
Template and Version Definitions:
Could you provide more details on what constitutes a "driver" BOM, particularly in the context of 
Finance and Production BOM types? How do these differ in terms of structure and purpose?•
What specific conditions dictate whether a BOM is a Finance BOM or a Production BOM in Co -
Packer Plants?•3.
Validation and Consistency Requirements:
The rules around BOM validation are extensive. Are there existing tools or software that will 
automate these checks, or will these validations require manual oversight?•
Could you elaborate on how the "Consistency Scan" for BOMs will be implemented, and what 
technologies or methodologies will be used for this?•4.
Data Handling and Submission:
For BOM submission to SAP, it is mentioned that component extension will occur per BOM and 
plant location. Can you clarify if this will be an automated process, or if manual intervention will 
be necessary? What criteria determine this?•5.
Local Change Management:
The document refers to two types of local BOM changes: structural and version changes. Could 
you explain how these changes differ, and how they will be managed to avoid conflicts or 
overlaps?•6.
Use of New Technologies:
The specification mentions the use of Microsoft Blazor framework and a new transport layer. 
What role will these technologies play in the migration process, and how will they improve the 
functionality of the BOM Portal?•7.
   BOM PORTAL Page 478    
1. Power BI Direct to AWS MySQL Database (Handling 1,000,000+ Records)
DirectQuery Setup : Connect Power BI to AWS MySQL using DirectQuery to avoid loading large 
datasets into memory and ensure real -time updates.•
Query Optimization : Review and optimize MySQL queries to avoid timeouts, ensuring queries are 
designed to pull relevant data without overwhelming the system.•
Incremental Refresh : If DirectQuery isn’t enough or if performance is an issue, configure 
Incremental Refresh to handle large datasets more efficiently.•
Next Steps :
Set up the DirectQuery connection in Power BI. •
Test performance with a sample dataset to assess feasibility for the full 1,000,000+ records.•
Consider implementing Incremental Refresh if necessary. •
2. Attributes and Interfaces between BOM Portal and SAP
List of Attributes : Identify a complete list of fields that could be updated through the BAPI 
interface (such as materials, components, quantities, etc.).•
Field Synchronization : Verify that all relevant fields are synchronized between the BOM Portal 
and SAP, ensuring data consistency across systems.•
Reconciliation Plan : Develop a reconciliation strategy to track updates between the systems. •
Next Steps :
Work with Joey to identify all BAPI -populated fields . •
Ensure that this list matches your expected attributes in BOM Portal and SAP.•
Set up a reconciliation process to confirm field alignment.•
3. Querying and Analyzing BOMs
Power BI Reports : Build reports in Power BI to show BOM attributes, including materials, 
components, quantities, and changes over time.•
Field Comparison : Compare metrics like scrap rates , component data , and quantity changes to 
detect discrepancies.•
Calculated Columns : Use calculated columns and measures in Power BI to visualize and analyze 
trends.•
Next Steps :
Build an initial Power BI report pulling BOM data from MySQL, SAP, and BOM Portal. •
Set up comparison metrics (e.g., throughput vs. scrap, component -level quantities). •
Test the report with sample data.•
4. Handling Updates and Change Logs
Change Log Visualization : Build a Power BI view that shows historical updates from the change log 
alongside current BOM data, giving you a full audit trail.•
Tracking Modifications : Ensure that any updates recorded in the change log are linked to the 
appropriate fields in your Power BI report for comparison.•
Next Steps :
Add change log data to your Power BI report. •
Configure the report to display both historical and current BOM data for full traceability. •
5. Reconciliation of Data Flow
Data Monitoring : Use Power BI’s monitoring tools to identify inconsistencies between the BOM 
Portal and SAP in real time.•
Reconciliation Rules : Create rules for flagging discrepancies between key attributes like materials, 
quantities, and throughput.•
Next Steps :
Build reconciliation rules into Power BI or SAP reports to flag any discrepancies between the BOM 
Portal and SAP.•
Test the monitoring process for consistency. •
6. STP0 SAP and Invalid BOM End Dates
STP0 Validation : Monitor the SAP STP0 transaction to track BOM start/end dates and ensure they 
are valid.•
Change Log Review : Use the change log to confirm if BOMs have had their end dates modified, 
and check if these changes are accurately captured.•
Next Steps :
Set up a Power BI report or SAP query to monitor invalid end dates. •
Ensure the BAPI interface captures any modifications to start/end dates. •
7. Creating User Access and Reports
Power BI Sharing : Share reports via Power BI by using embedded reports, URL links, or Power BI 
apps.•
Team Access : Ensure that team members (e.g., Joey, Andre) can access the reports and 
collaborate on the data analysis.•
Next Steps :
Enable Power BI sharing for the reports. •
Set up access permissions for team members to view or collaborate on the data.•
8. Joey, Andre, and BAPI Analysis
Conversation with Joey : Meet with Joey to review the BAPI structure and understand how fields 
are populated from the BOM Portal to SAP.•
Extract and Compare : Once you know which fields the BAPI handles, extract that data and 
compare it to the BOM fields to ensure completeness.•
Field Validation : Confirm that all necessary fields are captured, and any additional fields are 
included in the comparison.•
Next Steps :
Meet with Joey to review the BAPI structure. •
Extract and compare BAPI -populated fields with BOM data. •
Ensure all relevant fields are included in your reports and analysis.•
Granularity and Semantic Model
Granularity Review : Ensure that the correct level of granularity is applied to your data analysis, 
focusing on component -level data such as throughput and scrap.•
Semantic Model : Investigate whether using a semantic model will simplify queries and provide 
better insights at the component level.•
Next Steps :
Review data granularity to ensure you are capturing component -level details. •
Investigate the feasibility of using a semantic model to streamline analysis. •Power BI Direct to AWS MySQL :
Set up DirectQuery .
Optimize queries .Setup directquery to optimize queries directquery
Test with sample data and enable Incremental Refresh if Neededhttps://www.bing.com/ck/a?!&&p=1065 CLARKSVILLE PROC
1072 DARDANELLE PROC
1086 GRANNIS PROC
1088 GREEN FOREST PROC
1102 NASHVILLE PROC
1117 PINE BLUFF PROC
1133 ROGERS ELM ST PROC
1176 MONROE PROC
1194 WILKESBORO FRESH PROC
1205 SHELBYVILLE PROC
1223 GLEN ALLEN PROC
1224 RANDALL RD PROC
1225 BERRY STREET PROC
1257 T-VILLE PROC
1278 VAN BUREN PROC
1285 WALDRON PROC
1311 BLOUNTSVILLE PROC
1331 CENTER PROC
1341 SEGUIN PROC
1350 ALBERTVILLE PROC
1366 CORYDON PROC
1372 ROBARDS PROC
1401 NOEL PROC
1467 CUMMING PROC
1818 MONETT PROC
1833 SEDALIA PROC
1865 CARTHAGE MS PROC
1872 FOREST 2 PROC
2052 BROKEN BOW PROC
2116 NEW HOLLAND FRESH PROC
2235 CARTHAGE PROC
1214 UNION CITY PROC
1356 HOPE PROC
1395 DEXTER PROC
1532 VIENNA PROC
0300 PP-PI COPY SHELL PLANT
1966 WILKESBORO PROC 2
1631 GLEN ALLEN PROC 2
1080 FAYETTEVILLE MEX ORIG PROC
1505 NEW LONDON PROC
2650 DALLAS PROC
2341 WEST CHESTER PROC
1506 SAN LORENZO PROC
1512 NEWBERN PROC
2937 TWIN RIVERS -ATKINS
8205 COLORADO PREMIUM
2630 NORTH RICHLAND HILLS PROC
2396 COUNCIL BLUFFS PF PROC
1134 ROGERS CHICK -N-QUIK PROC
2690 OMAHA PROC
1544 PORTLAND MEX ORIG PROC
1971 SANFORD MEX ORIG PROC
8171 CUSTOM CRAFT POULTRY
8044 MONOGRAM FOODS -BRISTOL
1472 EMMAUS FOODS LLC
1499 SUZANNAS KITCHEN -PEACHTREE
8107 DORADA FOODS
2347 EASLEY PROC
8568 TWIN RIVERS -NAVY RD
8099 MOUNTAIN COUNTRY -SPANISH FORK
8781 AMITY PACKING CO
8193 GREENCORE -SHAKOPEE
8164 MOUNTAIN COUNTRY -OKEENE
8138 MOUNTAIN COUNTRY -SPANISH FORK
2693 DRAYTON
2947 ALATRADE -ALBERTVILLE
8048 DAKOTA PROVISIONS
8074 BETTER BAKED FOODS
8155 OSI-CHICAGO
8100 DARLING INGREDIENTS
8108 MORRISON MEAT PACKERS
8112 CTI FOODS -OWINGSVILLE
8146 CLASSIC FOODS LP
8147 INNOVATIVE BAKING
8158 SUGAR CREEK -CAMBRIDGE CITY
8166 FOURTH ST BBQ
8200 BROOKE INDUSTRIES
8201 FILET OF CHICKEN
8202 HOLMES SMOKEHOUSE
8204 LA REINA
8208 GOLD CREEK FOODS
8212 KERRY KETTLE -FORT WORTH
8813 FRESH MARK INC
8552 TONY DOWNS FOODS
8696 SUZANNAS KITCHEN -NORCROSS
8699 LAFAMA FOODS
8750 BUDDYS KITCHEN INC
8768 SUGAR CREEK -W CHESTER THUN
2637 HOUSTON PROCSpec Changes have shown stable results, waiting on business for sign -off. Yesterday I sent a follow 
up message to them asking for an update as our intend is to continue with ZPARM verification on 
Wednesday (that will give us the today to notify EIM and Disassembly users). •
Started working on the official document for Valid producible BOMs on concise Formulation 
descriptions. (If the card hasn't been move to InProgress, it can already) •
BOM Portal going through a data audit process. Audit team will compare data snapshot from the 
BOM_MYSQL db to the current state of the data lake. I provided an initial semantic based on a SQL 
query, this semantic is published into Power bi but will have to reconnect with Joey to ensure data 
is the same as the Bapi. (Greg can provide some context) -If possible we can add a card to this as 
it will take couple days of the sprint. •10/8/2024
Monday, October 07, 2024 12:31 PM
   BOM PORTAL Page 479    
Granularity Review : Ensure that the correct level of granularity is applied to your data analysis, 
focusing on component -level data such as throughput and scrap.•
Semantic Model : Investigate whether using a semantic model will simplify queries and provide 
better insights at the component level.•
Next Steps :
Review data granularity to ensure you are capturing component -level details. •
Investigate the feasibility of using a semantic model to streamline analysis. •
BAPI Field Review : Check which fields the BAPI sends from BOM Portal to SAP. •
Granularity : Ensure key fields like throughput and scrap are included for comparison. •
Test Scenario : Test if missing fields like throughput affect the audit •Power BI Direct to AWS MySQL :
Set up DirectQuery .
Optimize queries .
Test with sample data and enable Incremental Refresh if needed. •
Attributes Between BOM Portal and SAP :
Identify BAPI fields . •
Ensure field synchronization . •
Set up a reconciliation process . •
BOM Queries and Analysis :
Build a Power BI report with BOM data . •
Compare key metrics like scrap and throughput . •
Test with sample data.•
Change Logs :
Visualize historical updates with current BOM data . •
Link updates from the change log to the Power BI report. •
Data Reconciliation :
Set up Power BI to flag inconsistencies between BOM Portal and SAP. •
Test reconciliation rules.•
STP0 SAP :
Monitor BOM start/end dates . •
Ensure BAPI captures modifications. •
Access and Reports :
Enable Power BI sharing . •
Set up access permissions for Joey and Andre. •
BAPI Field Review :
Meet with Joey, review BAPI fields.•
Extract and compare BOM fields . •
Ensure field completeness.•
Granularity Review :
Ensure correct granularity for key fields. •
Test if missing fields affect the audit.•Setup directquery to optimize queries directquery
Test with sample data and enable Incremental Refresh if Needed
To Do:
Identify Bapi Fields•
Ensure field synchronization•
Set up a reconciliation process•
Build a power bi report with BOM data
Compare key metrics like scrap and throughput
Visualize historical updates with current bom data
Link updates from the change log to the powebi report
Setup BI to flag inconsistencies between bom portal https://www.bing.com/ck/a?!&&p=
89dac7e1ea3be901JmltdHM9MTcyODI1OTIwMCZpZ3VpZD0wODA0NjVhNi1mMzZmLTYyNzItMzc2OC03
MTU3ZjI2NzYzNzUmaW5zaWQ9NTIzOQ&ptn=3&ver=2&hsh=3&fclid=080465a6 -
f36f-6272 -3768 -7157f2676375
&psq=direct+query+power+bi&u=a1aHR0cHM6Ly9sZWFybi5taWNyb3NvZnQuY29tL2VuLXVzL3Bvd2VyL
WJpL2Nvbm5lY3QtZGF0YS9kZXNrdG9wLWRpcmVjdHF1ZXJ5LWFib3V0&ntb=1
Power BI Direct to AWS MySQL: 
Set up DirectQuery. •
Optimize queries. 
Test with sample data and enable Incremental Refresh if needed.Attributes Between BOM 
Portal and SAP: 
Identify BAPI fields. 
Ensure field synchronization. 
Set up a reconciliation process. 
BOM Queries and Analysis: 
Build a Power BI report with BOM data. 
Compare key metrics like scrap and throughput. 
Test with sample data. 
Change Logs: 
Visualize historical updates with current BOM data. 
Link updates from the change log to the Power BI report. 
Data Reconciliation: 
Set up Power BI to flag inconsistencies between BOM Portal and SAP. 
Test reconciliation rules. 
STP0 SAP: 
Monitor BOM start/end dates. 
Ensure BAPI captures modifications. 
Access and Reports: 
Enable Power BI sharing. 
Set up access permissions for Joey and Andre. 
BAPI Field Review: 
Meet with Joey, review BAPI fields. 
Extract and compare BOM fields. 
Ensure field completeness. 
Granularity Review: 
Ensure correct granularity for key fields. 
Test if missing fields affect the audit. Power BI Direct to AWS MySQL
Set up DirectQuery•
Optimize queries•
Test with sample data and enable Incremental Refresh if needed•
Attributes Between BOM Portal and SAP
Identify BAPI fields•
Ensure field synchronization•
Set up a reconciliation process•
BOM Queries and Analysis
Build a Power BI report with BOM data•
Compare key metrics like scrap and throughput•
Test with sample data•
Change Logs
Visualize historical updates with current BOM data•
Link updates from the change log to the Power BI report•
Data Reconciliation
Set up Power BI to flag inconsistencies between BOM Portal and SAP•
Test reconciliation rules•
STP0 SAP
Monitor BOM start/end dates•
Ensure BAPI captures modifications•
Access and Reports
Enable Power BI sharing•
Set up access permissions for Joey and Andre•
BAPI Field Review
Meet with Joey, review BAPI fields•
Extract and compare BOM fields•
Ensure field completeness•
Granularity Review
Ensure correct granularity for key fields•
Test if missing fields affect the audit•8696 SUZANNAS KITCHEN -NORCROSS
8699 LAFAMA FOODS
8750 BUDDYS KITCHEN INC
8768 SUGAR CREEK -W CHESTER THUN
2637 HOUSTON PROC
2383 WARREN BOSCO PROC
3006 CHICAGO BRUSS PROC
3007 JACKSONVILLE BRUSS PROC
2649 COLUMBIA PROC
2632 CONCORDIA PROC
1484 INDEPENDENCE PROC
2627 SOUTH HUTCHINSON PROC
2654 VERNON PROC
2653 WATERLOO PROC
2652 HUTCHINSON WINCHESTER PROC
2641 MADISON HAM PROC
2342 AMHERST PROC
2346 CASEYVILLE PROC
2352 VINELAND PROC
2345 CLAREMONT PROC
2343 PORTLAND PROC
1964 WILKESBORO FOOD SRVC PROC
8216 LA CHIQUITA
8869 NU PAK INC
1057 BERRYVILLE PROC
1136 RUSSELLVILLE TYLER RD PROC
1094 NORTH LITTLE ROCK PROC
1886 VICKSBURG PROC
8221 LA CHIQUITA -ORLANDO
2552 SEDALIA RVAF
1081 FORT SMITH PROC
2364 ENID PINE PROC
2350 ENID ENTERPRISE PROC
2351 ENID WILLOW PROC
8227 GEMSTONE FOODS
2349 ENID RALEIGH PROC
8229 KEYSTONE -GADSDEN
8218 KEYSTONE -EUFAULA
8233 FESTIDA FOODS
1466 ALATRADE -PHENIX CITY
8795 ABBYLAND FOODS -ABBOTSFORD
2115 NEW HOLLAND FURTHER PROC
1500 CLARYVILLE PROC
2088 GREEN FOREST FP PROC
1503 HALTOM CITY PROC
8234 RUPRECHT
2207 UNION CITY PROC
1292 HOPE PROC
1516 KANSAS CITY PROC
1835 DEXTER PROC
2261 PHILADELPHIA PROC -HUNTING PARK
2262 PHILADELPHIA PROC -AMERICAN
1617 HUMBOLDT PROC
1508 STORM LAKE TURKEY PROC
8253 GOLD CREEK -GAINESVILLE
1507 SAINT JOSEPH PROC
1504 ZEELAND PROC
1725 CAMILLA PROC
1737 ALBANY PROC
1715 EUFAULA FRESH PROC
1711 GADSDEN PROC
1717 EUFAULA FP PROC
1498 CRIDER
1727 CAMILLA FRESH PROC
2934 ALATRADE -BOAZ
1702 ROME PROC
2319 BOWLING GREEN PROC
1637 DANVILLE PROC
1968 WILKESBORO FRESH PROC
Plants that exist in both BOM portal and the query list:
1057 BERRYVILLE PROC•
1065 CLARKSVILLE PROC•
1072 DARDANELLE PROC•
1080 FAYETTEVILLE MEX ORIG PROC•
1081 FORT SMITH PROC•
1086 GRANNIS PROC•
1088 GREEN FOREST PROC•
1102 NASHVILLE PROC•
1117 PINE BLUFF PROC•
1133 ROGERS ELM ST PROC•
1134 ROGERS CHICK -N-QUIK PROC •
1136 RUSSELLVILLE TYLER RD PROC•
1176 MONROE PROC•
1194 WILKESBORO FRESH PROC•
1205 SHELBYVILLE PROC•
1224 RANDALL RD PROC•
1225 BERRY STREET PROC•
1257 T -VILLE PROC •
1285 WALDRON PROC•
   BOM PORTAL Page 480    
1285 WALDRON PROC•
1292 HOPE PROC•
1311 BLOUNTSVILLE PROC•
1331 CENTER PROC•
1341 SEGUIN PROC•
1350 ALBERTVILLE PROC•
1372 ROBARDS PROC•
1467 CUMMING PROC•
1500 CLARYVILLE PROC•
1503 HALTOM CITY PROC•
1504 ZEELAND PROC•
1505 NEW LONDON PROC•
1506 SAN LORENZO PROC•
1507 SAINT JOSEPH PROC•
1508 STORM LAKE TURKEY PROC•
1512 NEWBERN PROC•
1516 KANSAS CITY PROC•
1532 VIENNA PROC•
1544 PORTLAND MEX ORIG PROC•
1617 HUMBOLDT PROC•
1637 DANVILLE PROC•
1702 ROME PROC•
1711 GADSDEN PROC•
1715 EUFAULA FRESH PROC•
1717 EUFAULA FP PROC•
1725 CAMILLA PROC•
1727 CAMILLA FRESH PROC•
1737 ALBANY PROC•
1818 MONETT PROC•
1833 SEDALIA PROC•
1865 CARTHAGE MS PROC•
1872 FOREST 2 PROC•
1886 VICKSBURG PROC•
1964 WILKESBORO FOOD SRVC PROC•
1968 WILKESBORO FRESH PROC•
1971 SANFORD MEX ORIG PROC•
2052 BROKEN BOW PROC•
2088 GREEN FOREST FP PROC•
2115 NEW HOLLAND FURTHER PROC•
2116 NEW HOLLAND FRESH PROC•
2207 UNION CITY PROC•
2235 CARTHAGE PROC•
2261 PHILADELPHIA PROC -HUNTING PARK •
2262 PHILADELPHIA PROC -AMERICAN •
2319 BOWLING GREEN PROC•
2341 WEST CHESTER PROC•
2342 AMHERST PROC•
2343 PORTLAND PROC•
2345 CLAREMONT PROC•
2346 CASEYVILLE PROC•
2349 ENID RALEIGH PROC•
2350 ENID ENTERPRISE PROC•
2351 ENID WILLOW PROC•
2352 VINELAND PROC•
2383 WARREN BOSCO PROC•
2396 COUNCIL BLUFFS PF PROC•
2627 SOUTH HUTCHINSON PROC•
2630 NORTH RICHLAND HILLS PROC•
2632 CONCORDIA PROC•
2637 HOUSTON PROC•
2641 MADISON HAM PROC•
2650 DALLAS PROC•
2652 HUTCHINSON WINCHESTER PROC•
2653 WATERLOO PROC•
2654 VERNON PROC•
2690 OMAHA PROC•
3006 CHICAGO BRUSS PROC•
Plants that are in the query list but not in the BOM portal:
Plants that are in the BOM portal but not on the query list:
0300 PP -PI COPY SHELL PLANT •
1214 UNION CITY PROC•
1356 HOPE PROC•
1395 DEXTER PROC•
1466 ALATRADE -PHENIX CITY •
1472 EMMAUS FOODS LLC•
1484 INDEPENDENCE PROC•
1498 CRIDER•
1499 SUZANNAS KITCHEN -PEACHTREE •
1631 GLEN ALLEN PROC 2•
   BOM PORTAL Page 481    
End of Support Lifecycle for Aurora Version :
Amazon Aurora End of Standard Support 10/31/2024 : Announcement: Amazon Aurora MySQL 2.x 
end of standard support is on October 31, 2024 | AWS re:Post•
Customers using Amazon Aurora MySQL 2.x must upgrade to newer versions (Amazon Aurora 
MySQL 3.x, compatible with MySQL 8.0) before the deadline to avoid automatic enrollment in 
Extended Support.•
If databases are not upgraded by October 31, 2024, they will automatically be placed in RDS 
Extended Support , which only covers versions 2.11.x and 2.12.x.•
Charges for RDS Extended Support will commence on December 1, 2024 , and will continue until 
the databases are upgraded to a newer major version or until the end of Extended Support on •
RDS Extended Support•
RDS Extended Support is available til February 28, 2027 .
available for up to 3 years past the Aurora end of standard support date for a major 
engine version (3 years and 4 months for Aurora MySQL version 2). After this time, if 
you haven't upgraded your major engine version to a supported version, then 
Amazon Aurora will automatically upgrade your major engine version. 
recommended to  upgrade to a supported major engine version as soon as possible.○1.
Billing Process if Upgrade Doesn't Happen :
Extended Support Charges: Amazon RDS Extended Support charges -Amazon Aurora •
Billing Process for RDS Extended Support
You will incur charges for all engines enrolled in RDS Extended Support beginning the day 
after the Aurora end of standard support date•
On October 31, 2024 , databases running Aurora MySQL 2.x that have not been upgraded will 
automatically be enrolled in RDS Extended Support .This only applies to minor versions 2.11.x and 
2.12.x.
Start of Charges :
December 1, 2024 : Charges for RDS Extended Support will begin. Clients will be billed 
for this extended support based on the number of virtual CPUs (vCPUs) used by their 
Aurora instances.▪○
Charge Structure :
RDS Extended Support is charged on a per vCPU per hour basis. The specific rates can 
be found in the AWS pricing documentation .▪
Amazon RDS Extended Support charges -Amazon Aurora ▪○
Continuation of Charges :
Extended Support charges will continue until:
The client upgrades their Aurora MySQL database to a newer major version 
(e.g., Aurora MySQL 3.x).•▪
The database instance is deleted or stopped.▪○
End of Extended Support :
RDS Extended Support for Aurora MySQL 2.x will conclude on February 28, 2027 .After 
this date, AWS will no longer provide support for these versions.▪○•2.
Suggested Resolutions and Actions to Avoid Billing for Extended Support :
Recommended Actions to Upgrade: Amazon Aurora Upgrade Process •
upgrade checklist, Part 1
Upgrade checklist, Part 23.10/22 Aurora 2 in AWS Update
Tuesday, October 22, 2024 11:13 AM
   BOM PORTAL Page 482    
AWS assumes that clients who do not take appropriate actions to upgrade their Aurora databases may 
require Extended Support. Therefore, proactive upgrading is strongly recommended to avoid incurring 
additional costs and to maintain access to support services.
   BOM PORTAL Page 483    
Data Inconsistency through SAP Submission, 
Scrap Material is showing that total scrap in bom portal is one thing but the actual value should be 
different
Material not submitting production BOM correctly
46.62 scrap factor is not displaying properly in display material bom: all data
There is indiscrepency in the production BOM, the finance BOM is correct.
We have a different logic submitting in production BOM that is causing data indiscrepency
Some production BOM's are correct, some are not.
Why is submission not correctly sending data
Since migrating in URL this should not be generated by logic.
Something in the code is getting values stuck or cached from previous attributes.10/22/24 -Data Inconsistency
Tuesday, October 22, 2024 10:30 AM
   BOM PORTAL Page 484    
[1]BOM_1 Standard BOM Submission. Poultry, Prepared
Ticket out with Global Scrap not being grabbed on Q environment
[1]BOM_2 Bom Submission With Phantom Prepared
I didn't see anything in this one that failed. Revisit
[1]BOM_3 ECM BOM submission
Didn’t see anything in this one that failed. Revisit
[1]BOM_4 Verify Material Syncs work in BOM Portal
Material flagged for deletion SAP BOM Submit error
Material 10000004126, Plant 2349
[1]BOM_5 Verify Resource Sync Works in BOM Portal
Failed. Will need more investigation as to how
[1]BOM_6 Plant Sync to BOM Portal
Server error HTTP 500 when attempting to create plant 1968Test cases from 1-3: Defect 627 -Material Extension issue (Critical) -looks like global scrap is 
affected•
Test cases 5: Defect 643 -Resource Sync failing (Major) -During our testing I saw duplicates made, 
and things not sticking in BOM Portal. It appears the information is not being integrated into the 
system correctly•
Test cases 6: Defect 644 -Plant creation failing (Major) •
Plant creation failure due to http 500 server error1/31/2025 -Testing
Friday, January 31, 2025 8:49 AM
   BOM PORTAL Page 485    
Mass ESP Approvals
Thursday, February 27, 2025 1:09 PM
   BOM PORTAL Page 486    
2/20/25
Thursday, February 20, 2025 8:59 AM
   BOM PORTAL Page 487    
Key Issues
INC3017163 (Ohri, Aarti)
BOM Portal Slowness:
Users have faced delays attributed to SignalR timeouts initially set to 5 minutes.•
The timeout was temporarily reduced to 110 seconds in local testing, but this fix was never 
deployed to production , leaving the original timeout in place.•1.
Closure Without Verification:
The ticket was marked as resolved without undergoing proper business testing . •
There was no sign -off from Andre , creating a procedural gap that could lead to future oversights. •2.
Deployment Confusion
Azure and GitLab:
There is ongoing confusion regarding deployments in Azure, despite the team being blocked from 
deploying there for over a year due to disaster recovery protocols .•
This confusion likely arises from unclear communication about the deployment process. •
Lack of Training for Harsha:
Harsha did not receive sufficient knowledge transfer (KT) on GitLab deployments, which is 
critical for managing future implementations effectively.○•3.
Centralized Knowledge Sharing
Proposed SharePoint:
A suggestion has been made to create a community SharePoint under the BOM Portal to 
improve knowledge sharing, close knowledge gaps, and provide guidance and support.••
Admin Homepage Loading Issues
Hypercare Impact:
Admins continue to experience homepage loading issues during hypercare, leading to 
delays and inefficiencies in operations.•
This issue is categorized as a top priority for resolution. ••
Pending Ticket (INC3085646)
This ticket was functioning well last week, but new issues have surfaced.•
It is crucial to identify what changes occurred between the successful operation last week and the 
current problems to determine the root cause.•
Spec Refresh and BOM Submission Problems
There are discrepancies with spec refresh and BOM submission versions:
The payload sent to SAP is not submitting as expected, indicating a failure in the refresh 
function.•
Multiple materials are affected, suggesting systemic issues that need to be addressed.••
Specific Update on INC3081016
Packaging Materials Issue:
After refreshing BOM versions 3031 and 3032, the packaging materials are now visible in 
BOMP.•
However, Recon is not recognizing these materials in both primary and secondary codes, 
indicating further discrepancies that require resolution.••
Recommendations
1. Reopen INC3017163
Action: Reopen the ticket and ensure the fix for the SignalR timeout is properly tested and 
deployed to production.•
Verification: All changes should undergo rigorous business testing and be signed off by Andre •10/24/2024 Incidents
Thursday, October 24, 2024 9:02 AM
   BOM PORTAL Page 488    
Verification: All changes should undergo rigorous business testing and be signed off by Andre 
before closing the ticket.•
2. Knowledge Transfer for GitLab
Action: Organize hands -on training for Harsha and other team members on GitLab to ensure 
effective management of deployments.•
Formalization: Develop and formalize knowledge transfer processes for future rollouts to prevent 
gaps in deployment knowledge.•
3. Clarify the Deployment Process
Action: Review and clarify the current deployment pipeline. •
Alignment: Ensure all developments align with the approved GitLab -based processes , 
acknowledging that Azure deployments are blocked.•
4. Implement Centralized Knowledge on SharePoint
Action: Create the proposed BOM Portal Community SharePoint as a centralized hub for 
documentation, knowledge transfer, and troubleshooting.•
Objective: Enhance access to shared knowledge and reduce miscommunication among team 
members.•
5. Investigate INC3085646
Action: Analyze what changes occurred since last week to identify any recent updates or 
environmental factors causing the current issues.•
Focus: Document any changes in the environment, code updates, or other relevant factors that 
may have impacted the ticket’s functionality.•
6. Focus on Admin Homepage Loading Issues
Action: Prioritize investigating the root cause of the homepage loading issues affecting hypercare 
operations.•
Objective: Implement a solution as soon as possible to ensure efficiency during critical support 
periods.•
7. Resolve Spec Refresh and BOM Submission Issues
Action: Investigate the failures in the spec refresh function and address the discrepancies in BOM 
submission versions.•
Specifics: Ensure that packaging materials are recognized in Recon for both primary and 
secondary codes to align with expectations.•
8. Establish Testing and Deployment Protocols
Action: Implement a clear protocol for testing and deploying changes from SIT to production . •
Sign -offs: Ensure all changes require sign -offs at each stage of the process to enhance 
accountability and minimize errors.•
Next Steps
1. Schedule a Meeting
Objective: Organize a meeting with key stakeholders (Andre, Doug, Harsha) to review the status of 
the tickets and action items outlined above.•
2. Further BOM Testing
Action: Execute additional BOM versions beyond 3031 and 3032 to thoroughly test for 
discrepancies and ensure system integrity.•
3. Monitor Updates
Action: Continuously monitor the status of INC3081016 and INC3085646 , documenting changes 
and resolutions as they occur to maintain an accurate record of progress.•
How does finance bom have spec quantity and production doesnt they are both recieving same spec. 
Some audit reports show similar where compontents spec quantities that where 0 on the database. 
While they where transmitted to sap differently they where translated to 0 andre saw similar in QA for 
both environments particular issue. Every recipe has copy of data, so refresh any bom version, 
referencing whats on the payload as many times as we have versions during that refresh the recipe gets 
destroyed, a placeholder is generated a. he has sent reference to infosys during transition, no proper 
   BOM PORTAL Page 489    
destroyed, a placeholder is generated a. he has sent reference to infosys during transition, no proper 
follow up and andre will look at documentation related to anything for refreshes that was already 
present on certain materials. What to do to get spec refreshed. Try refreshing. What andre has seen is 
that any time when a refresh fails and we get a 3401 version any bom stuck out there wont b e able to 
refresh until the one is deleted. Go to 3031 try refreshing it spec qty field is required validation failed for 
one or more entities see entity validation errors property for now that the refresh fails it turns into 3431 
when a recipe is put into error or pending an ephemeral recipe gets stuck and stranded. Once we delete 
it what do we have to do to keep from getting it again. Last time infosys was sent some inquires a. saw 
whwere loop gets stucked and it happens whenever we have a bom that is stranded as a pale 
yellow/green or pending error refreshing. Andre wants to reconvene with the development team start 
to discuss around those issues. Just a couple versions are not refreshing. Version 31, 32, 33, 2 versions of 
3031 two different recipes 773448 and 783536. 829102. Generate a report to generate every material 
829102 showing out
   BOM PORTAL Page 490    
We are trying to learn what is the execution behind the synchronization for updateMaterialAsync, 
determine the direction of the requests between the client and the server and how the requests are 
generated
This level of detail only represents the frontend stratum of the execution sequence. I would like for you 
to understand the parts that are called through the multiple events on this side, particularly at midtier. 
See how some of the methods are invoking modules such as "plantConfigHub", similarly that 
UpdateMaterialAsync generates an incursion on the midtier, which will eventually be passed into a 
different Hub
F12 > Sources >  SignalR > Hubs    
Call Stack:
updateMaterialAsync (hubs:792)
PlantConfigController.$scope.updateMaterialAsync (PlantConfigController.js:152)
fn (VM808:4)
expensiveCheckFn (angular.js:15281)
callback (angular.js:24808)
$eval (angular.js:17025)
$apply (angular.js:17125)
(anonymous) (angular.js:24813)
dispatch (jquery.min.js:3)
r.handle (jquery.min.js:3)
1. Client -Side Execution Analysis:
The updateMaterialAsync function in PlantConfigController initiates the 
synchronization process. This function is defined as:•
$scope.updateMaterialAsync = (material) => {
    $.connection.plantConfigHub.server.updateMaterialAsync(material, 
$scope.plant.code)
        .done((materialModel) => {
            material = materialModel;
            $scope.$apply();
            window.addEventLog({ description: "Sync for : " + 
material.materialNumber + " is complete", type: 2 /* 
server.EventTypeEnum.success */ });
        });
};
Explanation :
The client -side function is triggered •
It calls the updateMaterialAsync method on plantConfigHub (part of SignalR). •
Once the server processes the request, the .done() callback is executed, which:
Updates the material variable with the returned materialModel . •
Triggers $scope.$apply() to refresh the AngularJS UI. •
Logs the event in the browser for user feedback.•••
2. Direction of Requests :
Client -to-Server :
The direction starts from the client when updateMaterialAsync is called, initiating a 
request through proxies['plantConfigHub'].invoke() or 
$.connection.plantConfigHub.server.updateMaterialAsync() . This invokes a 
server -side method over a WebSocket (or alternative SignalR transport).••
Server -to-Client :
The server -side UpdateMaterialAsync method processes the data and returns a 
response. The response is sent back to the client over the established SignalR connection, 
triggering the .done() callback in the client.••
3. Call Stack Overview :
Key Call Stack Steps :
updateMaterialAsync (hubs:792) : Initial function call that triggers the SignalR 
invoke() .1.
PlantConfigController.$scope.updateMaterialAsync : The controller function 
that wraps the call and handles the response.2.
AngularJS $apply() : Ensures the changes made to the material object are applied to the 
UI, starting a $digest() cycle.3.
Event Handling ( ngEventHandler ): Observes and handles events that may involve $eval
and $apply .4.
jQuery Event Dispatch ( jquery.min.js ): Manages the low -level event dispatching logic. 5.•
4. How Requests Are Generated :
The updateMaterialAsync function uses SignalR’s client -side invoke() method or 
$.connection object to create and send requests.
SignalR Mechanism :
The invoke() method formats the method name ( "UpdateMaterialAsync" ) and 
arguments ( material , plantCode ) into a structured message.•
The message is transmitted over the chosen SignalR transport (e.g., WebSocket, 
Server -Sent Events, or HTTP long -polling).•••
Request Payload :
Contains serialized data for material and plantCode , which are sent to the server for 
processing.••
5. Server -Side Handling :
The server receives the request through plantConfigHub and invokes the 
UpdateMaterialAsync method.•
Execution Path :
The server method processes the data, performs operations (e.g., database updates, SAP 
system interactions), and sends a response back to the client.••
6. AngularJS and Event Handling :
$apply() :
Used to ensure that changes to the scope variables are recognized and updated in the UI.••
$eval() :
Evaluates expressions in the context of the scope.••
Event Dispatching :
Managed by jQuery for handling user interactions and triggering AngularJS scope updates 
through $apply() .••
Next Steps:
Trace Server -Side Code :
Examine the implementation of UpdateMaterialAsync on the server to understand the 
complete flow and any downstream operations (e.g., database or SAP calls).••
Analyze Network Traffic :
Use the Network tab in browser Developer Tools to capture and inspect the request and 
response when updateMaterialAsync is triggered.••
Document the Flow :
Create a visual diagram in Lucidchart or a similar tool to represent the client -server 
interaction, highlighting:
The initiation from updateMaterialAsync . •
The SignalR request and server processing.•
The response handling and UI update in AngularJS.•••
UpdateMaterialAsync
Wednesday, November 06, 2024 1:42 PM
   BOM PORTAL Page 491    
To get a deeper understanding of how the `updateMaterialAsync` function operates across client -side 
and server -side interactions, and how requests propagate through the different layers of the 
application, follow these detailed steps:
### 1. **Client -Side Execution Analysis**
-**Function Origin**: The `updateMaterialAsync` function is initiated when the user clicks the icon (`<i 
class="fa fa -recycle" ng -click="updateMaterialAsync(material)"></i>`). This click event is handled by 
AngularJS, which triggers the `$scope.updateMaterialAsync` function defined in 
`PlantConfigController.js`.
-**Execution Process**:
  -The `updateMaterialAsync` function uses SignalR to call the server -side `updateMaterialAsync` 
method through `$.connection.plantConfigHub.server.updateMaterialAsync(material, 
$scope.plant.code)`.
  -The callback `.done()` is executed when the server responds, updating the `material` variable and 
calling `$scope.$apply()` to ensure the UI reflects the changes.
  -If there is an error, the `.fail()` callback logs the error for user feedback.
### 2. **Direction of Requests**
-**Client -to-Server**:
  -The function `updateMaterialAsync` initiates a call from the client to the server using SignalR's 
`invoke()` method, sending data such as `material` and `plantCode`.
  -This request is sent over a WebSocket connection or an alternative transport method (Server -Sent 
Events or long -polling) managed by SignalR.
-**Server -to-Client**:
  -The server processes the request in its `UpdateMaterialAsync` method, performs necessary 
operations (e.g., database updates or interactions with SAP systems), and sends a response back to the 
client.
  -The response triggers the `.done()` callback, which updates the material in the UI.
### 3. **Key Call Stack Analysis**
-**Client -Side Steps**:
  -`updateMaterialAsync (hubs:792)`: Invokes the SignalR method.
  -`PlantConfigController.$scope.updateMaterialAsync (PlantConfigController.js:152)`: Handles the 
client -side function.
  -AngularJS `$apply()`: Ensures that scope changes are recognized and the UI is refreshed.
  -Event handling with `ngEventHandler` and jQuery event dispatch logic ensures that the event is 
propagated correctly.
### 4. **How Requests Are Generated**
-The `updateMaterialAsync` function in the `SignalR Hub` on the client side formats and sends the 
request using the `invoke.apply()` method:
  ```javascript
  return proxies['plantConfigHub'].invoke.apply(proxies['plantConfigHub'], 
$.merge(["UpdateMaterialAsync"], $.makeArray(arguments)));
  ```
-This sends the data, including `plantMaterialModel` and `plantCode`, over an established SignalR 
connection.
### 5. **Server -Side Handling**
-**Server -Side Execution Path**:
  -The server -side `UpdateMaterialAsync` method receives the request and processes the data. This may 
involve business logic, database operations, or SAP system interactions.
  -After processing, the server sends a response back to the client.
### 6. **Mid -Tier Exploration**
-**Understanding Mid -Tier Calls**:
  -Identify how `plantConfigHub` connects to mid -tier components that may pass data or requests to 
other services or modules.
  -Use developer tools to search for `plantConfigHub` references and analyze how it interacts with other 
parts of the application (e.g., through service calls or middleware functions).
### **Next Steps to Deepen Understanding**
1. **Examine Server -Side Code**:
   -Review the actual server -side `UpdateMaterialAsync` implementation to understand any 
downstream logic or calls it makes (e.g., to an SAP system or database).
2. **Inspect Network Traffic**:
   -Use the **Network** tab in Developer Tools to observe SignalR messages sent and received. Look for 
payloads with `UpdateMaterialAsync` to understand the structure and content of the data exchanged.
3. **Visualize the Flow**:
Here's the flowchart that visualizes the client -server interaction for updateMaterialAsync() :
Initiation : Starts with the client click event that triggers updateMaterialAsync() . •
Client -Side Call : SignalR sends the method call. •
Request Transmission : The request is sent over WebSocket or XHR. •
Server -Side Processing : The server handles the UpdateMaterialAsync() function, processes 
the data (e.g., database or SAP operations).•
Response : The server returns material data to the client. •
Client Callback : The client processes the response in the .done() callback and updates the UI 
using $apply() .•
This flow outlines the complete lifecycle from initiation to client -side update
   BOM PORTAL Page 492    
   -Create a flowchart using a tool like Lucidchart to map the client -server interaction:
     -Show the initiation of `updateMaterialAsync` from the client.
     -Detail the SignalR request.
     -Include the server -side processing and response.
     -Highlight the client -side `.done()` callback handling and UI updates.
4. **Investigate Event Listeners and Callbacks**:
   -Use the **Event Listeners** tab in Developer Tools to trace any events related to 
`updateMaterialAsync`.
   -Analyze AngularJS's `$digest()` cycle to ensure proper propagation of changes through `$scope.
$apply()` and `$eval()`.
By following these steps, you will gain a comprehensive view of the client -server flow, mid -tier 
interactions, and request handling involved in `updateMaterialAsync`.
   BOM PORTAL Page 493    
The incident report, INC3072666, involves a translation error between BOM (Bill of Materials) data in 
the Snaplogic Intelligent Integration Platform and SAP for the St Joe Plant, resulting in discrepancies in 
the BOM data sent to the MES (Manufacturing Execution System). This incident was first reported on 
October 16, 2024, by Kenneth Lane. Here’s a summary of the case status and activities:
Incident Details:
Affected User : Kenneth Lane •
Location : Tyson Emma •
Category/Subcategory : Apps -Enterprise / BOM Portal •
Configuration Item : Snaplogic Intelligent Integration Platform •
Assigned Group : EDM -NonSAP Master Data Support •
Assigned To : Harsha Vardhan M •
Status : In Progress •
Priority : 3 (Moderate) •
Key Issue:
Description : The BOM data sent from the BOM Portal to MES via Snaplogic shows discrepancies 
compared to the original data in SAP. The incident IDOC is 0000000434410486, and the affected 
material is 10269893333.•
Resolution Efforts and Status Updates:
Root Cause Analysis : Initial checks confirmed the data accuracy in BOM Portal and SAP, but 
discrepancies were identified in the translated data sent to MES.1.
Recent Code Change : There was a recent code update in the BOM Portal's DEV and QA 
environments addressing a similar issue. The team is validating the fix, which may resolve this 
incident.2.
Escalations : Due to SLA breaches and lack of updates, the incident was escalated multiple times. 3.
Next Steps : The code changes will be tested, and once deployed in production, the team will 
verify if the issue is resolved.4.
Communication:
Emails and Work Notes : Multiple emails and comments were exchanged, notably from Richie 
Lovan and Harsha Vardhan M, to track updates, escalate as necessary, and coordinate with other 
team members like Lara Andre and Rhona Knouse.•11/5/24 INC3072666 -Regarding a snaplogic translation error 
for plant 1507
Tuesday, November 05, 2024 3:57 PM
   BOM PORTAL Page 494    
/api/EDM/GetDemonstrated
id•
mtrl•
plant•
costcenter•
weeK_ENDING_DATE•
procesS_YIELD_TOTAL•
crewing•
Throughput•
/api/EDM/GetMaterialFinishedGood
__metadata•
mtrl•
mtrL_DESCR•
mtrL_CREATE_DATE•
mtrL_CATCH_WT_IND•
mtrL_GRP•
mtrL_GRP_DESCR•
mtrL_TYPE•
mtrL_TYPE_DESCR•
division•
divisioN_DESCR•
mtrL_GRS_WT•
mtrL_GRS_WT_UOM•
mtrL_NET_WT•
mtrL_NET_WT_UOM•
mtrL_SHELF_LIFE_DAY_CNT•
mtrL_MIN_REMAINING_DAY_CNT•
mtrL_CUBE_QTY•
mtrL_CUBE_QTY_UOM•
mtrL_CLIENT_DELETE_FLAG•
mtrL_BASE_UOM•
mtrL_CROSS_PLANT_STATUS•
cooL_CODE•
cooL_DESCR•
mtrL_SHIP_BY_DAY_CNT•
mtrL_STRATEGY_GRP•
mtrL_FINISH_FORM•
mtrL_FINISH_FORM_DESCR•
mtrL_FINISH_FORM_MED_DESCR•
mtrL_FINISH_FORM_LONG_DESCR•
mtrL_COOK_STATUS•
mtrL_COOK_STATUS_DESCR•
mtrL_COOK_STATUS_MED_DESCR•
mtrL_COOK_STATUS_LONG_DESCR•
mtrL_PKG_PACK_TYPE•
mtrL_PKG_PACK_TYPE_DESCR•
mtrL_PKG_PACK_TYPE_MED_DESCR•
mtrL_PKG_PACK_TYPE_LONG_DESCR•
mtrL_MEAT_BLK•
mtrL_MEAT_BLK_DESCR•
mtrL_MEAT_BLK_MED_DESCR•
mtrL_MEAT_BLK_LONG_DESCR•
mtrL_TARE_WT•
mtrL_TARE_WT_UOM•
mtrL_COATING•
mtrL_COATING_DESCR•
mtrL_COATING_MED_DESCR•
mtrL_COATING_LONG_DESCR•
mtrL_CURE•
mtrL_CURE_DESCR•
mtrL_CURE_MED_DESCR•
mtrL_CURE_LONG_DESCR•
mtrL_SAUCE•
mtrL_SAUCE_DESCR•
mtrL_SAUCE_LONG_DESCR•
mtrL_SAUCE_MED_DESCR•
mtrL_TARGET_DISTN_CHAN•
mtrL_SUBPROCESS•
mtrL_SUBPROCESS_DESCR•
mtrL_MGR_ID•
proD_MGR_USERID•
mtrL_TARGET_SALES_GRP_ID•
mtrL_TARGET_SALES_GRP•
mtrL_BLAST_IND•
mtrL_CORE_IND•
mtrL_LABEL_CLAIM_SHORT_TEXT•
mtrL_LABEL_CLAIM_LONG_TEXT•
mtrL_GLUTEN_FREE_IND•
iteM_TYPE•
iteM_TYPE_DESCR•
mtrL_STOR_REQ_DESCR•
mtrL_STOR_REQ_CODE•
mtrL_AVAIL_CHK•
protein•
proteiN_DESCR•
proteiN_CMPNT•
proteiN_CMPNT_DESCR•
proteiN_CMPNT_TYPE•
proteiN_CMPNT_TYPE_DESCR•
proteiN_CMPNT_TYPE_DTL•
proteiN_CMPNT_TYPE_DTL_DESCR•
mtrL_GRAIN_TYPE•
mtrL_GRAIN_TYPE_DESCR•
mtrL_GRAIN_TYPE_MED_DESCR•
mtrL_GRAIN_TYPE_LONG_DESCR•
proD_HIER•
proD_SUPER_CAT•
proD_SUPER_CAT_DESCR•
proD_CATEGORY•
proD_CAT_DESCR•
proD_SUB_CAT•
proD_SUB_CAT_DESCR•
proD_PROMOTED_GRP•
proD_PROMOTED_GRP_DESCR•
mtrL_BUS_UNIT•
mtrL_BUS_UNIT_DESCR•
mtrL_BUS_FAM•
mtrL_BUS_FAM_DESCR•
mtrL_BUS_GRP•
mtrL_BUS_GRP_DESCR•
prctr•
branD_GRP•
branD_GRP_DESCR•
mtrL_SALES_TIER_DESCR•
mtrL_TRADE_PRICE_TIER_DESCR•
mtrL_TRADE_PRICE_TIER_CODE•
brand•
branD_NAME•
branD_TYPE•
branD_TYPE_DESC•
noN_PREM_PROD_FLAG•
tolnC_GRP•
mtrL_CS_PER_LAYER_QTY•
mtrL_CS_PER_PALLET_QTY•
mtrL_LAYER_PER_PALLET_QTY•
warninG_TOLNC_UPPER_LIMIT_WT_UOM•
warninG_TOLNC_LOWER_LIMIT_WT_UOM•
proteiN_HIER•
waP_CLASS_VAL•
wiP_CLASS_DESCR•
mtrL_CUSTOMER_CAT_ID•
mtrL_CUSTOMER_CAT_DESCR•
trgT_DSTN_CHNL•
mtrL_PROCESS_ID•
mtrL_PROCESS_DESCR•
datE_FORMAT•
mtrL_NAE_CODE•
mtrL_NAE_DESCR•
mtrL_HDR•
mtrL_HDR_DESCR•
mtrL_WIP_PROCESS_STEP•
mtrL_WIP_PROCESS_STEP_DESCR•
mtrL_HUMAN_EDIBLE•
mtrL_HUMAN_EDIBLE_DESCR•
perioD_IND_SHELF_LIFE•Schemas
CUST_COST_CTRType {
cosT_CENTER_NUM [...]
controllinG_AREA [...]
valiD_TO_DATE [...]
valiD_FROM_DATE [...]
creatE_DATE [...]
language [...]
creatE_USERNAME [...]
cosT_CENTER_NAME [...]
cosT_CENTER_DESC [...]
}
DEMONSTRATED_STDType {
id [...]
mtrl [...]
plant [...]
costcenter [...]
weeK_ENDING_DATE [...]
procesS_YIELD_TOTAL [...]
crewing [...]
throughput [...]
}
EQUIPMENTType {
equiP_NUMBER [...]
valiD_TO_DATE [...]
equiP_USAGE [...]
plant [...]
functionaL_LOCATION [...]
systeM_STATUS_DESCR [...]
planT_SECTION_CODE [...]
planT_ROOM [...]
manufacturer [...]
modeL_NO [...]
seriaL_NUM [...]
asseT_NO [...]
cosT_CENTER [...]
creatE_DATE [...]
creatE_USER [...]
equiP_DESCRIPTION [...]
useR_STATUS_DESCR [...]
}
MTRL_ALT_UOMType {
mtrl [...]
mtrL_ALT_UOM [...]
mtrL_ALT_UOM_DISPLAY [...]
mtrL_BASE_UOM_CONVERT_NUMERATOR [...]
mtrL_BASE_UOM_CONVERT_DENOMINATOR [...]
mtrL_PKG_DIM_LENGTH [...]
mtrL_PKG_DIM_WIDTH [...]
mtrL_PKG_DIM_HEIGHT [...]
mtrL_PARALLEL_UOM_TYPE [...]
mtrL_PKG_DIM_UOM [...]
mtrL_BASE_UOM [...]
mtrL_NUMBER [...]
}
MTRL_NEW_FG_SALEABLETYPE {
__metadata __Metadata {
type [...]
uri [...]
}
mtrl [...]
mtrL_DESCR [...]
mtrL_CREATE_DATE [...]
mtrL_CATCH_WT_IND [...]
mtrL_GRP [...]
mtrL_GRP_DESCR [...]
mtrL_TYPE [...]
mtrL_TYPE_DESCR [...]
division [...]
divisioN_DESCR [...]
mtrL_GRS_WT [...]
mtrL_GRS_WT_UOM [...]
mtrL_NET_WT [...]
mtrL_NET_WT_UOM [...]
mtrL_SHELF_LIFE_DAY_CNT [...]
mtrL_MIN_REMAINING_DAY_CNT [...]
mtrL_CUBE_QTY [...]
mtrL_CUBE_QTY_UOM [...]
mtrL_CLIENT_DELETE_FLAG [...]
mtrL_BASE_UOM [...]
mtrL_CROSS_PLANT_STATUS [...]
cooL_CODE [...]
cooL_DESCR {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_SHIP_BY_DAY_CNT [...]
mtrL_STRATEGY_GRP [...]
mtrL_FINISH_FORM {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_FINISH_FORM_DESCR {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_FINISH_FORM_MED_DESCR {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_FINISH_FORM_LONG_DESCR {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_COOK_STATUS {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_COOK_STATUS_DESCR {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_COOK_STATUS_MED_DESCR {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_COOK_STATUS_LONG_DESCR {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_PKG_PACK_TYPE {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_PKG_PACK_TYPE_DESCR {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_PKG_PACK_TYPE_MED_DESCR {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_PKG_PACK_TYPE_LONG_DESCR {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_MEAT_BLK {...}
nullable: trueMD_Material_to_bom Schema
mtrL_
NUMBE
Rmaterial_num STRING REQUIRE
D Key
plant plant_num STRING REQUIRE
D- - - -
Key
bom_usage STRING REQUIRE
D- - - -
Key
bill_of_material STRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
alternative_bom STRING REQUIRE
D- - - -
Key
metadata_hub_checksum BYTES NULLABL
E- - - -
-
metadata_hub_current_flag BOOLEA
NNULLABL
E- - - -
-
metadata_hub_last_valid_row_flag BOOLEA
NNULLABL
E- - - -
-
mtrL_
CLIEN
T_DEL
ETE_F
LAGmetadata_hub_physical_delete_flag BOOLEA
NNULLABL
E- - - -
-
metadata_hub_begin_timestamp TIMESTA
MPNULLABL
E- - - -
-
metadata_hub_end_timestamp TIMESTA
MPNULLABL
E- - - -
-
metadata_hub_row_insert_timestamp TIMESTA
MPNULLABL
E- - - -
-
metadata_hub_row_update_timestamp TIMESTA
MPNULLABL
EEDM Fields
Thursday, December 05, 2024 3:28 PM
   BOM PORTAL Page 495    
mtrL_NAE_DESCR•
mtrL_HDR•
mtrL_HDR_DESCR•
mtrL_WIP_PROCESS_STEP•
mtrL_WIP_PROCESS_STEP_DESCR•
mtrL_HUMAN_EDIBLE•
mtrL_HUMAN_EDIBLE_DESCR•
perioD_IND_SHELF_LIFE•
maX_SHELF_LIFE_DESCR•
maX_SHELF_LIFE•
priM_LEGACY_MATNR•
priM_LEGACY_MATNR_DESCR•
priM_LEGACY_SYSTEM•
priM_LEGACY_SYSTEM_DESCR•
priM_LEGACY_HSBSKU_DESCR•
priM_LEGACY_HSBSKU•
productioN_TYPE•
mrP_TYPE•
planninG_SWITCH•
planninG_SWITCH_DESCR•
intL_ARTICLE_NUM•
mtrL_SUB_BUS_UNIT•
profitcntR_DESCR•
mtrL_SUB_BUS_UNIT_DESCR•
warninG_TOLNC_UPPER_LIMIT_WT•
warninG_TOLNC_LOWER_LIMIT_WT•
mtrL_HEAD_PER_CASE•
uniT_PER_CASE•
mtrL_NUMBER•
/api/Edm/GetMaterialAltUom
mtrl•
mtrL_ALT_UOM•
mtrL_ALT_UOM_DISPLAY•
mtrL_BASE_UOM_CONVERT_NUMERATOR•
mtrL_BASE_UOM_CONVERT_DENOMINATOR•
mtrL_PKG_DIM_LENGTH•
mtrL_PKG_DIM_WIDTH•
mtrL_PKG_DIM_HEIGHT•
mtrL_PARALLEL_UOM_TYPE•
mtrL_PKG_DIM_UOM•
mtrL_BASE_UOM•
mtrL_NUMBER•
/api/Edm/GetEquipment
equiP_NUMBER•
valiD_TO_DATE•
equiP_USAGE•
plant•
functionaL_LOCATION•
systeM_STATUS_DESCR•
planT_SECTION_CODE•
planT_ROOM•
manufacturer•
modeL_NO•
seriaL_NUM•
asseT_NO•
cosT_CENTER•
creatE_DATE•
creatE_USER•
equiP_DESCRIPTION•
useR_STATUS_DESCR•
/api/Edm/GetPlantResource
id•
resrC_ID•
plant•
planT_RESRC•
planT_RESRC_MOD_DATE•
planT_RESRC_MOD_USRID•
resrC_OBJ_TYPE•
resrC_LOCK_IND•
resrC_DELETE_FLAG•
resrC_CAT•
cosT_CTR•
resrC_CAT_DESCR•
planT_RESRC_DESCR•
planT_RESRC_VALID_FROM_DATE•
planT_RESRC_CREATE_DATE•
planT_RESRC_END_DATE•
planT_RESRC_VALID_TO_DATE•
hieR_NAME•
/api/Edm/GetPlants
plant•
planT_NAME1•
valuatioN_AREA•
planT_CUST•
planT_VEND•
planT_NAME2•
planT_ADDR_STREET•
planT_ADDR_PO_BOX•
planT_ADDR_POSTAL_CODE•
planT_ADDR_CITY•
purchasinG_ORG•
saleS_ORG•
planT_ADDR_REGN•
planT_ADDR_CNTRY_CODE•
planT_ADDR_CITY_CODE•
address•
taX_JURIS•
distN_CHAN•
lanG_KEY•
regN_DESCR•
planT_ADDR_CNTRY•
lanG_NAME•
factorY_CAL•
planT_STATUS•
priM_ALPHA_PLANT_IND•
planT_SHIP_POINT•
copackeR_IND•
planT_BUS_UNIT•
planT_TYPE•
attacheD_PLANT•
yuM_BRANDS_PLANT_ID•
cheP_CODE•
planT_SPLC•
uniteD_NATIONS_TRADE_LOCN•
distN_CTR_IND•
doC_BATCH_MANAGE_IND•
ocS_PLANT_IND•
routE_PLANT_IND•
traY_PACK_IND•
byproducT_COST_CTR_IND•
pppI_ACTIVE_IND•
planT_CAMPUS•
priM_ALPHA_PLANT•
planT_SPEED_DIAL_PHONE•
planT_ADDR_ATTN_LINE•
planT_CONTACT_NAME•
planT_CONTACT_PHONE•
planT_CONTACT_FAX•
planT_MGR_NAME•
/api/Edm/GetCostCenter
cosT_CENTER_NUM•
controllinG_AREA•
valiD_TO_DATE•
valiD_FROM_DATE•
creatE_DATE•
language•
creatE_USERNAME•
cosT_CENTER_NAME•
cosT_CENTER_DESC•
AmtrL_PKG_PACK_TYPE_DESCR {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_PKG_PACK_TYPE_MED_DESCR {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_PKG_PACK_TYPE_LONG_DESCR {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_MEAT_BLK {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_MEAT_BLK_DESCR {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_MEAT_BLK_MED_DESCR {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_MEAT_BLK_LONG_DESCR {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_TARE_WT [...]
mtrL_TARE_WT_UOM [...]
mtrL_COATING {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_COATING_DESCR {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_COATING_MED_DESCR {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_COATING_LONG_DESCR {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_CURE {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_CURE_DESCR {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_CURE_MED_DESCR {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_CURE_LONG_DESCR {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_SAUCE {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_SAUCE_DESCR {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_SAUCE_LONG_DESCR {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_SAUCE_MED_DESCR {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_TARGET_DISTN_CHAN [...]
mtrL_SUBPROCESS {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_SUBPROCESS_DESCR {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_MGR_ID {...}
nullable: true
proD_MGR_USERID {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_TARGET_SALES_GRP_ID [...]
mtrL_TARGET_SALES_GRP [...]
mtrL_BLAST_IND {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_CORE_IND {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_LABEL_CLAIM_SHORT_TEXT [...]
mtrL_LABEL_CLAIM_LONG_TEXT [...]
mtrL_GLUTEN_FREE_IND [...]
iteM_TYPE {...}
nullable: true
iteM_TYPE_DESCR {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_STOR_REQ_DESCR [...]
mtrL_STOR_REQ_CODE [...]
mtrL_AVAIL_CHK [...]
protein [...]
proteiN_DESCR [...]
proteiN_CMPNT [...]
proteiN_CMPNT_DESCR [...]
proteiN_CMPNT_TYPE [...]
proteiN_CMPNT_TYPE_DESCR [...]
proteiN_CMPNT_TYPE_DTL [...]
proteiN_CMPNT_TYPE_DTL_DESCR [...]
mtrL_GRAIN_TYPE {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_GRAIN_TYPE_DESCR {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_GRAIN_TYPE_MED_DESCR {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_GRAIN_TYPE_LONG_DESCR {...}
nullable: true
proD_HIER [...]
proD_SUPER_CAT [...]
proD_SUPER_CAT_DESCR {...}
nullable: true
proD_CATEGORY [...]
proD_CAT_DESCR {...}
nullable: true
proD_SUB_CAT [...]
proD_SUB_CAT_DESCR {...}
nullable: true
proD_PROMOTED_GRP [...]
proD_PROMOTED_GRP_DESCR {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_BUS_UNIT [...]
mtrL_BUS_UNIT_DESCR {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_BUS_FAM {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_BUS_FAM_DESCR {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_BUS_GRP {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_BUS_GRP_DESCR {...}
nullable: true
prctr [...]
branD_GRP [...]
branD_GRP_DESCR [...]
mtrL_SALES_TIER_DESCR {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_TRADE_PRICE_TIER_DESCR {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_TRADE_PRICE_TIER_CODE [...]
brand [...]
branD_NAME {...}
nullable: true
branD_TYPE [...]
branD_TYPE_DESC {...}
nullable: true
noN_PREM_PROD_FLAG [...]
tolnC_GRP [...]
mtrL_CS_PER_LAYER_QTY [...]
mtrL_CS_PER_PALLET_QTY [...]
   BOM PORTAL Page 496    
mtrL_CS_PER_PALLET_QTY [...]
mtrL_LAYER_PER_PALLET_QTY [...]
warninG_TOLNC_UPPER_LIMIT_WT_UOM [...]
warninG_TOLNC_LOWER_LIMIT_WT_UOM [...]
proteiN_HIER [...]
waP_CLASS_VAL {...}
nullable: true
wiP_CLASS_DESCR {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_CUSTOMER_CAT_ID [...]
mtrL_CUSTOMER_CAT_DESCR [...]
trgT_DSTN_CHNL [...]
mtrL_PROCESS_ID {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_PROCESS_DESCR {...}
nullable: true
datE_FORMAT [...]
mtrL_NAE_CODE [...]
mtrL_NAE_DESCR [...]
mtrL_HDR {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_HDR_DESCR {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_WIP_PROCESS_STEP {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_WIP_PROCESS_STEP_DESCR {...}
nullable: true
mtrL_HUMAN_EDIBLE [...]
mtrL_HUMAN_EDIBLE_DESCR {...}
nullable: true
perioD_IND_SHELF_LIFE [...]
maX_SHELF_LIFE_DESCR {...}
nullable: true
maX_SHELF_LIFE [...]
priM_LEGACY_MATNR [...]
priM_LEGACY_MATNR_DESCR {...}
nullable: true
priM_LEGACY_SYSTEM [...]
priM_LEGACY_SYSTEM_DESCR [...]
priM_LEGACY_HSBSKU_DESCR {...}
nullable: true
priM_LEGACY_HSBSKU {...}
nullable: true
productioN_TYPE [...]
mrP_TYPE [...]
planninG_SWITCH [...]
planninG_SWITCH_DESCR [...]
intL_ARTICLE_NUM [...]
mtrL_SUB_BUS_UNIT [...]
profitcntR_DESCR [...]
mtrL_SUB_BUS_UNIT_DESCR [...]
warninG_TOLNC_UPPER_LIMIT_WT [...]
warninG_TOLNC_LOWER_LIMIT_WT [...]
mtrL_HEAD_PER_CASE {...}
nullable: true
uniT_PER_CASE [...]
mtrL_NUMBER [...]
}
PLANTType {
plant [...]
planT_NAME1 [...]
valuatioN_AREA [...]
planT_CUST [...]
planT_VEND [...]
planT_NAME2 [...]
planT_ADDR_STREET [...]
planT_ADDR_PO_BOX [...]
planT_ADDR_POSTAL_CODE [...]
planT_ADDR_CITY [...]
purchasinG_ORG [...]
saleS_ORG [...]
planT_ADDR_REGN [...]
planT_ADDR_CNTRY_CODE [...]
planT_ADDR_CITY_CODE [...]
address [...]
taX_JURIS [...]
distN_CHAN [...]
lanG_KEY [...]
regN_DESCR [...]
planT_ADDR_CNTRY [...]
lanG_NAME [...]
factorY_CAL [...]
planT_STATUS [...]
priM_ALPHA_PLANT_IND [...]
planT_SHIP_POINT [...]
copackeR_IND [...]
planT_BUS_UNIT [...]
planT_TYPE [...]
attacheD_PLANT [...]
yuM_BRANDS_PLANT_ID [...]
cheP_CODE [...]
planT_SPLC [...]
uniteD_NATIONS_TRADE_LOCN [...]
distN_CTR_IND [...]
doC_BATCH_MANAGE_IND [...]
ocS_PLANT_IND [...]
routE_PLANT_IND [...]
traY_PACK_IND [...]
byproducT_COST_CTR_IND [...]
pppI_ACTIVE_IND [...]
planT_CAMPUS [...]
priM_ALPHA_PLANT [...]
planT_SPEED_DIAL_PHONE [...]
planT_ADDR_ATTN_LINE [...]
planT_CONTACT_NAME [...]
planT_CONTACT_PHONE [...]
planT_CONTACT_FAX [...]
planT_MGR_NAME [...]
}
PLANT_RESRCType {
id [...]
resrC_ID [...]
plant [...]
planT_RESRC [...]
planT_RESRC_MOD_DATE [...]
   BOM PORTAL Page 497    
planT_RESRC_MOD_USRID [...]
resrC_OBJ_TYPE [...]
resrC_LOCK_IND [...]
resrC_DELETE_FLAG [...]
resrC_CAT [...]
cosT_CTR [...]
resrC_CAT_DESCR [...]
planT_RESRC_DESCR [...]
planT_RESRC_VALID_FROM_DATE [...]
planT_RESRC_CREATE_DATE [...]
planT_RESRC_END_DATE [...]
planT_RESRC_VALID_TO_DATE [...]
hieR_NAME [...]
}
__Metadata {
type [...]
uri [...]
}
   BOM PORTAL Page 498    
5/7/25BOM Structural Review
Wednesday, May 07, 2025 11:30 AM
   BOM PORTAL Page 499    
Transition to GitLab and Pipeline Changes
Migration to GitLab : •
All projects and corresponding repositories, pipelines, and services currently hosted on Azure are 
being moved to GitLab. Azure will be fully decommissioned.•
Ensure that all deployment and integration processes are compatible with GitLab’s environment 
and tools.•
Pipeline Setup in GitLab :
Two separate pipelines must be established:
Services Pipeline : For backend services, including deployment, testing, and 
monitoring workflows.•
Web Applications Pipeline : For front -end web applications, including build, 
deployment, and quality checks.••
Design pipelines to support continuous integration/continuous deployment (CI/CD) with 
automated testing and approval workflows.••
BOM Portal and Recipe Management
Material BOM (CS03) :
SAP transaction code to display the Bill of Materials (BOM) for materials used in production. 
Critical for managing material components and their quantities.••
Recipe BOM (C203) :
SAP transaction code to display Recipe BOM, which includes formulation data necessary for 
production processes.••
BOM Portal :
Acts as the central system for managing production line recipes. The portal consolidates and 
displays all relevant recipe information used in manufacturing.••
Recipe Management :
Ensures that production recipes in the BOM Portal are kept up -to-date and synchronized 
with any changes from the Product Data Management (PDM) and Product Lifecycle 
Management (PLM) systems.••
Enterprise Change Management (ECM)
ECM Lifecycle :
Manages changes from a cost accounting perspective rather than formulation.•
Tracks modifications in how the BOM is manufactured, covering both stock and non -stock 
components sent to SAP.•
Coordinates updates across all departments involved in the production process to ensure 
accurate cost accounting.••
Handling of Seconds Material
Definition and Discussion :
"Seconds Material" represents downgraded materials or products that don’t meet quality 
standards.•
Requires discussions to define clear management guidelines and justifications for handling 
exceptions, potentially all the way back to PDM (Product Data Management).••
Communication Between Systems
PDM to BOM Portal :
PDM sends notifications to the BOM Portal regarding specification changes. BOM Portal is 
the authoritative source for master formulation data.•
BOM Portal verifies the event ID and relevant material before confirming expected 
specification changes to PDM.••
Synchronization Processes :
Weekly Checks : Ensure data alignment between PDM, PLM, and BOM. PLM decentralizes 
material data into a BOM -readable format.•
Daily Reconciliation : Compares data between BOM and PDM, involving over 1,000 recipes 
to identify discrepancies and maintain synchronization.••
NService Notifications :
Used for receiving and integrating specification change notifications into a weekly 
reconciliation process, ensuring all data is up -to-date.••
Reconciliation and Data Integrity
Daily and Weekly Reconciliation :
Daily Checks : Identify discrepancies between BOM and PDM for around 1,000 recipes to 
prevent data misalignment.•
Weekly Reports : Provide detailed reconciliation between BOM and PDM data, ensuring 
consistency with PLM requests.••
Splunk Dashboards :
Enhancements Needed : Update dashboards for improved logging capabilities using Redis 
and SignalR web sockets. This will help with faster reconnections and IP address 
assignments.••
Data Flow and Specification Changes
Data Flow :
PDM sends formulation data to the BOM Portal and ESP (Engineering Service Portal).•
SAP receives recipe -level data directly from the BOM Portal to ensure all production data is 
consistent and accurate.••
Spec Changes and PLM Payload :
PDM manages spec changes by sending messages to the BOM Portal, triggering specific 
microservices.•
BOM Portal fetches formulation data from PLM for official product updates.••
Key Actions Moving Forward
Migrate Azure -Based Services to GitLab :
Transition all repositories, pipelines, and services to GitLab to meet the decommissioning 
deadline of Azure.•
Verify all deployment processes, permissions, and integrations are working in the new 
environment.••
Update Splunk Dashboards :
Enhance logging visibility and detail to monitor performance and identify issues quickly.•
Implement Reconciliation Processes :
Conduct daily and weekly reconciliation checks between BOM, PDM, and PLM systems 
to maintain data integrity.•••
Manage Seconds Material :
Develop and document clear guidelines for managing seconds material, including 
defining its status and handling exceptions.••
Coordinate ECM Changes :
Monitor changes managed by the Enterprise Change Management (ECM) system that affect ••Team Roles
Developers (C#): Jamie Studzinski, Rohis Khan, Zach Hendrix, Ben Easterling, Michael Dufek, Alec 
Anderson•
Developer (SAP -ABAP): Ivan Albarran •
Technical Analysts (PDM): Kari Siemens, Azalia Martinez •
Business Analysts: Andre Lara, Greg Homstad •
Architect (C#): Shannon Massman •
Project Manager: Jerry Kosh •
Manager: Tricia McCoy •Project Notes from KT
Wednesday, September 04, 2024 8:44 AM
   BOM PORTAL Page 500    
Monitor changes managed by the Enterprise Change Management (ECM) system that affect 
cost accounting, ensuring synchronization across all systems.•
Application Lifecycle Management (ALM) for BOM Portal
ALM Functions :
Test Verification : Validates that all test procedures are correctly run, including documenting 
who conducted the tests and when.•
Lifecycle Monitoring : Ensures that all systems remain in concurrent lifecycle states for 
consistency.••
Testing Process :
Creating Tests : Develop new test plans for defects or disaster recovery, specifying test 
names, comments, and creation dates.•
Running Tests : Execute tests, document expected versus actual results, and move to 
"Passed" status if successful.•
Check -In/Check -Out Procedures : Record detailed information about the testing process and 
results.••
Current Focus Areas
Spec Change Management :
Address issues with unmarked or incomplete spec changes leading to incorrect or outdated 
data in the BOM Portal.•
Monitor and update the manually maintained logs showing an increase in dropped 
connections.••
System Configuration :
Ensure proper configuration and synchronization between PDM, SAP, and the BOM Portal to 
avoid miscommunications and data errors.••
Connection Testing :
Perform ongoing testing to validate connections between systems, especially for the 
upcoming SAP upgrade D41••
Challenges and Issues
Cache Problems : Reverting to an older SignalR version due to configuration errors caused by 
cached data.•
Connection Issues : Maintaining stable connections between PDM, microservices, and web 
applications.•
Deployment Strategy : Evaluate and refine the blue -green deployment strategy to ensure smooth 
rollouts.•
Sprint Planning
Duration : 10-day sprints with a cutoff on September 3rd. •
Task Allocation : 8 points per person (1 point = 1 day). •
Focus : Clear backlogs, prioritize tasks, and prepare for the upcoming SAP upgrade.•
Upcoming Tasks
Validate Spec Changes :
Verify application functionality after spec changes.•
Check daily in DynamoDB or Swagger API for spec changes in rerun status.••
Prepare for SAP Upgrade :
Finalize connection testing plans and ensure alignment across teams.••
Investigate BOM Portal Disconnection :
Develop a resolution plan for frequent disconnection issues.••
Key Observations
Material Numbers : Adhere to plant -specific standards, formatted as 11 digits. •
BOM Portal Redesign : Ongoing efforts to simplify cost accounting and production processes, 
aligning data structures with business requirements.•
Next Steps
Monitor Spec Change Errors :
Continue to identify and resolve errors related to specification changes and connection 
issues.••
Async Operations and Caching :
Implement solutions to handle asynchronous operations and resolve SignalR caching 
conflicts.••
SAP Upgrade Preparation :
Finalize test plans and align all systems for the upgrade.••
Process Overview
PDM to BOM Communication :
PDM sends specification change notifications to BOM Portal. BOM confirms and notifies 
PDM of any expected changes.••
PLM Involvement :
PLM decentralizes material data, translating it into a BOM -readable format. Regular checks 
ensure data synchronization.••
Reconciliation Processes :
Daily and weekly comparisons between BOM and PDM data to identify desynchronization.••
Monitoring and Logging
NService Notifications : Track and log specification changes. •
Splunk Dashboard Updates : Enhance monitoring to provide more detailed insights. •
Redis and SignalR : Enable quick system reconnections. •
Software Deployment and Integration
Deployment : Promote software changes from Dev and QA to production environments. •
Impact Assessment : Monitor PDM effects due to updates and changes. •
Database Use : BOM Portal runs on MySQL hosted on AWS Aurora. •
Top Priorities
Data and Schema Integrity : Ensure data accuracy and prevent corruption. •
Restart Timing : Plan POD restarts in sync with official specification changes. •
Risks
Team Direction : Clear guidance needed for the development team. •
Material Handling : Issues defining and handling "seconds" material in PDM payloads. •
Coordination : Improve coordination between PDM, BOM, and SAP to resolve data handling 
challenges.•
   BOM PORTAL Page 501    
ZPARM Documentation
Due: 10/21
Description
This documentation covers the updates related to the zparm table, focusing on the mapping of SAP 
programs to microservices in the BOM Portal. It involves the migration of URL paths from the legacy 
system to a cloud environment and ensures that SAP functionalities are seamlessly integrated. The 
document addresses the validation of master data synchronization by confirming that all URLs are 
operational post -migration without disruptions.
The goal is to ensure data consistency, functional stability, and a smooth transition during the migration
Acceptance Criteria
The document must clearly define the functional requirements for the zparm table, including:
Proper mapping of SAP programs to microservices.•
Accurate updating of URLs for the cloud environment.•
Full validation of data consistency and system stability.•BOM Portal & Microservices Overview
Microservices and SAP :
Microservices in the BOM Portal correspond to SAP functionalities.•
SAP provides data indirectly, which is confirmed when constructing a BOM.•1.
Data Communication :
We don't directly communicate with SAP; instead, we interact with EAP data.•
The focus is on ensuring master data is validated and synchronized. •2.
Plant Material Microservice :
Data is fetched from plant material microservices, which specify where to pull data from and to . •3.
Health Status in BOM Portal :
Clicking on the status within the BOM Portal allows viewing the health of each microservice. •4.
SAP Development & ZPARM Details
Table ZTFIT_PARM : ZE16 Transaction Code
This table stores configurational values for specific SAP programs.•5.
SAP Program Execution :
SAP programs encapsulate specific functionalities and are executed through ABAP . •
Each program is mapped to a URL via ZPARM , which links the programs to external functions. •6.
ZPARM and RFCs :
ZPARM maps SAP programs to URLs and is called via RFCs (Remote Function Calls) . •
The ZCL_Not_On_BOM program references specific URLs, and each program can call a 
microservice.•7.
Wildcard Search :
A wildcard *bom* pulls all references related to BOM in SAP. •8.
ZPARM Changes in Disaster Recovery :
Migration : The BOM Portal was migrated from a legacy system to the cloud for disaster recovery. •
ZPARM URLs were updated to point to the new cloud environment from the legacy system. •9.
Disaster Recovery Process
Website Migration :
The BOM Portal was seamlessly migrated from the legacy system to the cloud.•
ZPARM : The change performed was updating the URL from the old environment to the new one. •10.
Data Continuity :
Ensured the new URLs reflected old functionalities and that services continued without disruption.•
The new URL serves as the baseline, confirming every functionality is stable and there are no 
disruptions between the old and new environments.•11.
ZParm
Tuesday, October 15, 2024 12:29 PM
   BOM PORTAL Page 502    
The timeline in the image shows various projects and phases, including the development and integration 
of the Direct PDM Formulation Interface and related components.
The Direct PDM Formulation Interface milestones suggest it will be a key element in this process:
October 25, 2024 : The interface's initial release or setup is planned. 1.
December 20, 2024 : The subscription guarantee milestone appears, indicating a stability or 
readiness phase.2.
These two key points align with Phase 1 , so by the end of December, it seems the foundation for Master 
Formulation will be in place, paving the way for further integration in Phase 2 .
From January to February 2025 , related components (like BOM Assembly UI and Material Master ) are 
in focus. This suggests that Master Formulation is being aligned with BOM (Bill of Materials) efforts, 
preparing for broader ETL processes, ESP integration , and the BOM Publishing phase by mid -2025.
Thus, Master Formulation seems to be moving toward full integration with other core systems (like 
BOM) by the second quarter of FY2025 (April to June). The migration and UAT (User Acceptance Testing) 
phases later indicate a goal of seamless operation and data consistency across systems before individual 
plant migrations.Master Formulation
Thursday, October 17, 2024 1:41 PM
   BOM PORTAL Page 503    
Also, can you please try and access to D41 in the meantime? The process is the same, go to fiori, and 
download the D41 -100 S/4 HANA Unit Test
Here are the key points from the BOM Portal status update as of 11th September 2024:
Milestones / Achievements:
PDM Formulation Provider Design : Completed, eliminating a major source of incorrect production 
BOMs by removing a corrupt/stale snapshot stage between PDM and BOM Portal.1.
Formulation Validation : Completed to prevent corruption in BOMs and support future 
formulation system changes.2.
BOM Configuration System : Completed, resolving defects and errors in the legacy system and 
setting a reference for future .NET projects.3.
PDM Consistency Design : Approved, ensuring successful delivery or failure recognition of 
formulation changes.4.
Phase 1 -3 Planned Epics:
BOM Schema1.
Blazor Integration2.
PDM Interface (Delayed, extended till Phase 2, end of Dec 2024). 3.
Risks / Opportunities:
Disaster Recovery (DR) : Delays continue to hinder deployments and deliverables. •
PDM Design : Later than planned, with pending PDM -related tasks blocked. •
Website Cutover : User migration strategy defined. •
Remaining Work / Tasks:
Phase 2 Planning : Completed; work can begin on the Phase 2 SOW. 1.
Blazor UI Implementation : Pending for PDM formulation views. 2.
Disaster Recovery : Preparation of technical and functional documentation underway. 3.
SAP Work : ZPARM table updates are scheduled for 13th September. 4.
Project Delays & Path to Green:
BOM Portal Disaster Recovery : Connection to PDM remains an issue due to incomplete spec 
changes, blocking updates.•
SAP ZPARM Table Update : Dependent on addressing spec changes. •
These points reflect the current project status and areas needing attention Connection Testing
Monday, September 16, 2024 8:26 AM
   BOM PORTAL Page 504    
SpecChange Initiation :
The process begins when a specification change is created. This change is logged and assigned 
for further processing by the SpecChangeHub.ProcessSpecChangeAsync method.•
Retrieving the Change :
The system uses GetSpecChangeForKeyAsync to retrieve the relevant data about the spec 
change using a key (likely identifying the specific product or recipe).•
Checking for Official Product Changes :
The system verifies if there have been any official product changes using the 
Tyson.Product.Bus.Contracts.External.Events.OfficialProductChanged
event.•
Update Spec Change :
The spec change details, including progress or recipe count, are updated with 
UpdateSpecChange . The status is also updated via PutAsync(status) .•
Processing Rules and Recipe Objects :
The system processes the spec change by iterating through both the 
SpecChangeRuleHeaders and RecipeObject pairs. This is where it checks for specific 
fields and action types.•
If there are any missing rules, the system updates the spec change progress using 
UpdateSpecChangeProgress(MissingRules) .•
Interaction with External Systems :
The Product Data Management (PDM) service sends a notification about the official product 
changes. The Bill of Materials (BOM) Portal receives this notification and shares it with the 
master formulation.•
Error Handling and Final Update :
If any errors occur (e.g., missing spec change rule headers), they are handled within this 
process. The final update is sent to the PDMServiceGateway.GetCorporateFormulation , 
which processes the document.•
Throughout the process, AWS DynamoDB, MySQL databases, and SignalR clients are used for 
managing data storage, communication, and real -time updates 
9/17
Current Status:•
Set everything back to the legacy URL in PDM.•
Zach completed unit tests this morning for the spec change microservice to check if SignalR 
reconnects. So far, everything appears to be working as expected.•
Deployment Plan:•
The deployment is scheduled for Friday after business hours.•
PDM will be on standby to switch back if needed.•
We will conduct extensive testing to identify any remaining issues.•
Testing and Monitoring:•
If any issues are detected, we will revert to the current setup.•
A couple of spec changes will be sent through per Andre’s suggestion.•
True test results will be evaluated on Monday morning.•
SignalR Reconnection Logic:•
The system should detect any signal loss and restart the connection automatically, with minimal data 
loss during the restart.•
Previous issues showed some irregularities; unit testing is being performed to ensure stability.•Spec Changes
Monday, September 16, 2024 7:38 AM
   BOM PORTAL Page 505    
Previous issues showed some irregularities; unit testing is being performed to ensure stability.•
New methods were added to handle reconnection, detect closed or error states, and signal 
reconnection events.•
Next Steps and Timeline:•
We are currently behind schedule and need a clear plan to transition out of Disaster Recovery (DR).•
Define roles, responsibilities, and a detailed timeline for the completion of tasks.•
Establish a transition time for moving to the new URL and update the ZPARM table before finalizing 
the move.•
Business approval is contingent upon observing successful spec changes over a trial period.•
Goals:•
Ensure operations remain unaffected during the transition.•
Andre will recreate the master formulation to account for impacts by PDM and DR.•
Milestones and Responsibilities:•
Doug's involvement: Confirm when Doug will start testing and set this as a milestone.•
Clarify the timeline, including exact start times, responsible parties, and progress updates.•
Andre will conduct testing on Wednesday and Thursday, reviewing changes made in the spec and 
web application.•
   BOM PORTAL Page 506    
D41 Testing •
Defining Seconds Materials•
Short Answer: From a development standpoint, we're ready tomorrow. However, with Andre out, 
he’ll likely need time to complete testing once he's back (you can better estimate how long this 
will take). We can aim to install again on Friday afternoon. Both Zach and Andre will verify that 
everything is working properly in production on Friday and over the weekend.•
Outstanding Defect:•
Issue: Interrupted flow of Spec changes from PDM to BOM Portal. •
Root Cause: Still undetermined. •
Fix History: Applied fix in production, but reverted after BOM creation issues (the issues persisted 
post -revert, but then resolved themselves and the business recalled the tickets).•
Fix Detail: Restarts connection when a disconnect is detected. Need to reimplement since the 
BOM creation issue is unrelated. (Timeline pending —see above) .•
Alternate Fix:•
Revert to the old website (requires business approval acknowledging the risk of not fully DR'ing 
BOM Portal).•
Risk: Staying on the old website poses a potential audit issue because we can’t fully recover BOM 
Portal in a disaster. This is why DR work has been prioritized over project work.•
If risk is low, this is the solution. If high, we will reimplement the connection restart fix.•
Remaining Work:•
Update ZPARM table.•
Finalize documentation.•
User migration.•
Short Answer:  rom a development standpoint, we're ready tomorrow. However, with Andre out, he’ll 
likely need time to complete testing once he's back (you can better estimate how long this will take). We 
can aim to install again on Friday afternoon. Both Zach and Andre will verify that everything is working 
properly in production on Friday and over the weekend.•
Outstanding Defect:
Issue: Interrupted flow of Spec changes from PDM to BOM Portal. •
Root Cause: Still undetermined. •
Fix History: Applied fix in production, but reverted after BOM creation issues (the issues persisted 
post -revert, but then resolved themselves and the business recalled the tickets).•
Fix Detail: Restarts connection when a disconnect is detected. Need to reimplement since the 
BOM creation issue is unrelated. (Timeline pending —see above) .•
Alternate Fix:
Revert to the old website (requires business approval acknowledging the risk of not fully DR'ing 
BOM Portal).•
Risk: Staying on the old website poses a potential audit issue because we can’t fully recover BOM 
Portal in a disaster. This is why DR work has been prioritized over project work.•
If risk is low, this is the solution. If high, we will reimplement the connection restart fix.•
Remaining Work:
Update ZPARM table.•Current Tasks
Wednesday, September 11, 2024 10:34 AM
   BOM PORTAL Page 507    
Update ZPARM table.•
Finalize documentation.•
User migration.•
   BOM PORTAL Page 508    
1. Difference Between Finance BOM and Production BOM
Finance BOM : Primarily used for cost accounting, this BOM focuses on the financial aspects of the 
materials, outlining the costs associated with producing a finished good. It may not include the 
specific steps of production, but rather aggregates cost data from various formulations.•
Production BOM : Used for actual production processes, this BOM contains detailed information 
on how a product is manufactured, including the sequence of operations, components, and 
materials required at each step.•
Key Differences : While the Finance BOM aggregates financial data for accounting purposes, the 
Production BOM is focused on the physical manufacturing process and the materials needed.•
2. Conditions Dictating Finance or Production BOM in Co -Packer Plants
A Co-Packer Plant might utilize both types depending on the nature of the operations and the 
data required. Typically, the type of operation (e.g., cost -related activities vs. production line 
activities) determines whether a Finance BOM or Production BOM is required. Production BOMs 
are essential for plants directly involved in the manufacturing process, while Finance BOMs are 
used to support cost tracking.•
3. BOM Validation Tools
Automation Tools : While manual oversight may still be required, tools like SAP BOM validation 
tools and custom rule -based engines can automate validation processes. For instance, using 
validation scripts in the BOM portal or incorporating Splunk dashboards for real -time logging and 
validation could reduce manual work.•
Consistency Scan : This will likely involve a combination of rule -based validation processes, where 
the BOMs are scanned for data consistency with the source of record (e.g., PDM or PLM). 
Technologies like Splunk , Redis , and SignalR may assist in automating these consistency checks.•
4. BOM Submission to SAP
The extension of components to specific plants is typically automated , particularly for large -scale 
operations like Tyson's. However, manual intervention may still be required for exceptions or 
edge cases , such as when a material specification differs at a particular plant location.•
Criteria for Automation : The degree of automation will depend on the consistency of the data and 
the processes in place at each plant. Plants with standardized processes may have fully automated 
BOM submissions, while others may require manual adjustments.•
5. Managing Local BOM Changes
Structural Changes : Refer to modifications in the actual structure of the BOM, such as changing 
the components or altering the production steps. These require more rigorous oversight to ensure 
no conflicts arise.•
Version Changes : Relate to updating a BOM for a new version of the product or process. These are 
typically managed through version control systems and are less disruptive than structural changes, 
as they are tracked through version histories.•
Conflict Avoidance : By using systems like GitLab for version control and ALM (Application 
Lifecycle Management) tools for tracking changes, the BOM portal can ensure that no overlapping 
or conflicting changes occur.•
6. Role of Blazor Framework and New Transport Layer
Blazor will be used to enhance the front -end functionality of the BOM portal, offering a more 
responsive and dynamic user experience, particularly when interacting with complex BOM data.•
New Transport Layer : This will likely be utilized for improving communication between different 
systems, ensuring that data from external sources (e.g., PDM, PLM) is efficiently transmitted and 
processed within the BOM portal. Technologies like SignalR will enhance real -time data updates, 
ensuring synchronization between different layers of the BOM structure.•
7. Recipe -to-BOM Schema Migration
Key Objectives : This migration aims to address inconsistencies caused by the use of "Recipes" in 
place of BOMs. Recipes were improperly storing formulation data, leading to overlap and data 
integrity issues.•
New Schema : A distinct BOM entity will be introduced, with a BOM Template tier aligned with 
cost centers to ensure data consistency and reduce duplication. The BOM will now contain 
authoritative data, ensuring it is synchronized with the PDM (Product Data Management) and 
PLM (Product Lifecycle Management) systems.•
8. Legacy vs. Goal Structures
Legacy Structure : The current system blends recipes and BOMs, leading to data overlap and 
inconsistencies. Recipes often include non -authoritative data, leading to constant modifications 
and data integrity issues.•
Goal Structure : The revised structure separates formulation data from BOMs, introduces a 
Template layer for plant cost centers, and confines versioning to specific data changes.•
9. Ongoing Processes and Next Steps
Azure to GitLab Migration : All project repositories and pipelines will transition from Azure to 
GitLab , as Azure will no longer be used for deployments.•
Pipeline Changes : Two separate pipelines (for services and web apps) will be established in GitLab, 
ensuring smoother project management and code deployment.•
Spec Changes and Reconciliation : Regular reconciliation processes, including daily and weekly 
checks between PDM , PLM , and BOM, will continue to ensure data consistency.•Questions:
How do we check for things like using non paramaterized queries?
Is there a pipeline we can run that will check for Security issues in our code?
What all issues are checked?
What risk is the company willing to take Combined Notes
Monday, September 16, 2024 7:51 AM
   BOM PORTAL Page 509    
9/17
BomPortal Formulation Replica
Story –split out of legacy pdm and new PDM work 
PDM is under development the new API isn't available yet
We'll continue developing in bom portal as if the new PDM client is available
Wont' be able to test any work that relies on formulation
But if we develop for legacy we'll have to rewrite code when api switch occurs
Take everything from legacy and create a point at which it can be switched over at a single point and 
work and continue to process the same way. 
Accomplished with a simple interface 
Legacy pdm injecting as intransient formulation provider
Transient formulation represents idealized formulation in a state where it can be from legacy, new pdm, 
or storage. We treat all data sources as the same 
When we inject it goes into cache which has one method on it for get spec
Need to simplify all the different names where using normalization will be in phase 2
Used to retrieve spec update or create formulation or return if known in database
By default we check by expired formulations which are expired spec change calls to the api and 
additionally when we receive formulation through pdm validate the version flag is updated
Through spec change and the version figure out if cache entries are expired. 
Advantage of sharing transient type –even though we swap over source of formulation data, we'll still 
be able to have legacy backwards compatibility when turning formulation into corporate formulationPDM Legacy/Future SoC
Tuesday, September 17, 2024 9:31 AM
   BOM PORTAL Page 510    
Key Team Members
My Team @ Tyson
Chelsey Marr –Managing Director IT
Tiffany Benitez –Sr Director of Applications
Dennis Ainley –Director of Applications
Jerry Koshy -Senior Project Analyst
IT Ops & Enabling Functions Portfolio Mgmt
Tyson Emma
MohitJerry.Koshy@tyson.com
Tricia McCoy –Senior Manager Applications
IT Finance Systems
Tyson Emma
Tricia.McCoy@tyson.com
+1 (479) 290 -1552
Andre Lara –Senior Analyst BOM Portal
IT Financial Controlling & Costing
Location TRC IT HUB (Mexico)
roberto.lara@tyson.comDevelopment Team
John Tran –Sr Mgr Applications
IT Software Engineering & Integration
Tyson Emma
John.Tran@tyson.com
tel:+1 (479) 290 -1240
Zach Hendrix -Sr Developer Applications
IT Microsoft Development
Tyson Emma
Zach.Hendrix@tyson.com
Rohisaba Khan (Ro -hee) -Developer II -Microsoft
IT Cloud Native Engineering (India)
Bangalore
Rohisaba.Khan@tyson.com
(962) 047 -2145
Benjamin Easterling (Ben) -  Developer Applications
IT Microsoft Development
Location Tyson Emma
+1 (479) 290 -3917
Alec Anderson
Global Source Consultants
Michael Dufek
Jamie Studzinski
Shannon Massman
Erick EnnisBusiness Team
Geof Schroeder, Sr Mgr Accounting
Ann Parker, SR Analyst Corp Finance
Doug Wolfe, Finance manager PPFD accounting team
SAP Contact
Support management we have the following Deloitte Contacts:
BOM Portal
Das, Rajadatta
Vardhan M, Harsha 
SAP Security: 
@IT SAP Security•
@IS Basis•Stakeholder Map
Monday, September 16, 2024 9:37 AM
   BOM PORTAL Page 511    
10/9/2024:
Data Management with EAP : Discussing data consumption using EAP, which serves as a data storage 
model for raw data and different views corresponding to master data.•
BOM Portal Audit : Acknowledging that the BOM Portal is undergoing an audit after many years, 
emphasizing the need to prioritize cleanup and verification.•
Collaboration with Andre and Dileep : Planning to collaborate on issues related to QA change, SAP 
upgrade verification, and plant activation.•
SQL Queries for Data Extraction : Working on SQL queries to extract specific data related to plant 
materials, including plants without material references, SAP active/inactive statuses, and recipe 
associations.•
Preparing for Tomorrow’s Tasks : Coordinating with Andre on handling feedback, prioritizing the next 
steps, and planning further work on system verifications•Daily Standup 
Wednesday, October 09, 2024 7:45 AM
   BOM PORTAL Page 512    
 1. Product & Business Context
Product Requirement Documents (PRDs)•
High -level vision, business goals, features, constraints.
BOM Portal Overview Documentation•
Functional specs, capabilities, workflow diagrams, use cases.
User Personas or Stakeholder Maps•
Who your users/stakeholders are and what they care about.
Strategic Objectives•
Internal OKRs, KPIs, or roadmap decks (e.g., why the BOM Portal exists, upcoming goals).
 2. Technical System Information
Architecture Diagrams•
Especially those showing BOM Portal ↔ SAP integrations, microservices, cloud infra.
SAP Integration Specs•
Tables used (e.g., ZTFIT_PARM), RFC documentation, field mappings.
Jira•
•
Master Data References•
Material types, spec structures, plant codes, recipes, etc.
 3. Agile Process & Team Operations
Jira Workflow Configs•
Custom issue types, states, and workflows.
Sprint Planning Templates•
Any regular structure you follow: capacity, velocity, planning agendas.
Backlog Grooming Rules•
DEEP criteria, estimation methods, prioritization framework (e.g., MoSCoW, WSJF).
Story Writing Guidelines•
INVEST format, acceptance criteria checklists, examples of well -written stories.
Definition of Ready / Definition of Done•
So it knows what “good” looks like.
Team Roles and Responsibilities•
So the assistant knows who does what (e.g., Andre = Analyst, Ann = Business, etc.).
 4. Communication & Feedback
User Feedback Surveys•
Especially your BOM Portal survey results from Angelica, Ann, Doug, etc.
Retrospective Notes•
Learnings, pain points, blockers.
Meeting Notes or Stakeholder Comms•
So it learns your tone and recurring concerns.
FAQs or Known Issues Lists•
For quick referencing or issue triage suggestions.Custom Setttings
Thursday, April 03, 2025 9:52 AM
   Custom GPT Page 513    
 5. Reporting & Metrics
Power BI Dashboards (exports)•
Even if static PDF or CSV of KPIs and tracked metrics.
Operational Reports•
E.g., active BOM statuses, spec change alerts, material sync statuses.
 Format Tips:
Prefer PDF, Markdown, DOCX, CSV , or TXT. •
Name files clearly (e.g., BOM_Architecture_Overview.pdf , Sprint_Plan_Template.docx ) •
You can also paste snippets of Jira tickets or meeting chat exports if helpful.•
Want me to help organize or structure your documents for upload? I can also generate a checklist or 
shared folder naming system.
   Custom GPT Page 514    
Cutover Plan Update -10/21 to 10/22
Key Updates:
Starting today, all users must begin using the new URL. •
Old URL will be decommissioned and no longer available. •
Cutover Timeline:
Cutover Period: 10/21 -10/22 •
Hypercare: One week following cutover to address any issues. •
Phase One Work:
Database migration and related tasks are planned during this period.•
Issues and Action Items:
Database Timeout Issue:
Alec’s team is still stuck on the issue. •
They are working in a group, but need additional assistance.•
Microsoft Support : Investigate if they can help resolve the timeout problem. •
Completion Timeline:
Alec's estimated completion: Check with Kari for an updated ETA and plan. •
Jeret will also review the issue to help with progress.•
Next Steps:
Jerry requires a status update by the 24th to keep things on track. ••••10/21/24
Monday, October 21, 2024 8:35 AM
   BOM Support Page 515    
Error in Saving Changes :
There seems to be a failure when trying to save modified entities to the database. This could be 
due to various reasons, such as validation errors, constraints, or issues with the data being sent.•
Issues with our BDI set up deloitte rosetta can help with back end requests•
War room for scrap•11/1/2024
Friday, November 01, 2024 8:07 AM
   BOM Support Page 516    
Continuing this morning working through tickets 
Scrap quantity has impacted MRP needs to be handled John Tran wants to determine if we need to hault 
master formulation and help with support tickets related to DR 
Rohi task –identify how many users are using Old URL vs new URL
Can we close DR Thursday? 
DR 10/30/2024
Wednesday, October 30, 2024 8:02 AM
   BOM Support Page 517    
Define how we will proceed with dissasembly 11/8/2024
Friday, November 08, 2024 8:49 AM
   BOM Support Page 518    
Pre and Post Upgrade D41 and Q41 Regression testing out of the 9 test cases 8 are automated. 
Shakti and Andre worked on validating scripts. 
Assigned khoustav however he is OOO 
Finnish regression testing 11/1
Andre will identify who can be contact to work through test case execution
Yesterday we did the cutover, just messaging cost accounting team the update they need to move to 
their side
When can we update the business as to 
Database issues is not DR part of Master Formulation Phase 1
Investigate high level won't be charged til december 1st. Aurora extended support
Have them provide us who's using old URL ask send report to the business as to who's still using old URL. 10/22/24
Tuesday, October 22, 2024 8:03 AM
   BOM Support Page 519    
Meeting Agenda: Phase 2 –Backlog Review
Date: 10/28/2024
Discussion Points:
Evaluate the PDM Recon report's visibility issues and consider building enhanced functionality 
directly into the BOM Portal instead of generating a report.
Discuss inaccuracies in the reconciliation report and how users currently identify missing 
items.○
Gather details on current processes and impact assessments regarding affected items and 
desired visibility enhancements.○
Explore opportunities for the reconciliation report and collaborate with team members 
(Andre, Alec, Kari) on user stories and functional requirements.○•
Discuss commitments for the BOM Assembly UI, collaborate with the UX team on new designs•
Create a user story tracking system in Loop and evaluate the utilization of the SnapLogic tool.•
Actions:
Schedule follow -up sessions with stakeholders to gather detailed feedback on visibility needs and 
current processes. John asked if he could be apart of call with business. Will follow up with Andre.•
Create a comprehensive list of requirements based on the feedback received, focusing on 
functionality, visibility, and automation.•
Collaborate with the development team to integrate the new functionality into the BOM Portal. •
Establish a timeline for implementation based on the complexity of the required changes and 
available resources.•
Ensure that team members are clear on their responsibilities for the upcoming tasks and 
deadlines.•
Ensure all discussions and decisions are documented for future reference in loop •10/28/24
Monday, October 28, 2024 8:20 AM
   BOM Support Page 520    
Issue 1: 
Percentages on second codes dissapeared
The plant went and added percentages back to bom yesterday, but all percentages where gone and 
someone had to manually add them back. They seem to have dissapeared from when we have migrated 
to the cloud. We're able to save them now, still need to figure out what's causing data to dissapear. 
Production BOM's have many versions from the same date (is this due to us refreshing these specs?)
These percentages are not contained in the spec it shouldn’t be affected with spec refresh or spec 
change. 
We need to figure out on the bom portal side what happens with seconds. 
There's a discrepancy in the data. Due to the seconds problem, we often have to refresh these and 
thinking it's due to number of seconds, anytime we get a refresh it is looking at spec for seconds codes 
and so Doug thinks maybe they time out before it's finished. Nothing should be overwriting what we are 
putting in as a characteristic. 
Issue 2:
Noticed that on the BOM we had percentages their for a BOM but there was no calculated quantity, 
incoming wip on bom didn’t have main ingredient or star. The bom lost the main ingredient flag and 
couldn’t calculate. We had to go and sync the whip code (sync the primary in bom portal to get the flag 
back) How did that flag get changed? What changed it? They where executing an estimate for future 
cost and noticed that the cost decreased by 50% for that code and it was missing the current values of 
those seconds, then they noticed quantity on seconds was 0. Since the flag was gone from primary whip. 
Issue 3: a lot more issues with Phantoms in SAP. The plant sent bom to sap recently and when sent the 
phantom got messed up in the quantity. We need to test SAP phantom Doug seemed to think it was 
necessary to reload LCF. Doug informed angelica they need to reload LCF. Before we wherent seeing 
issues with phantom, now we are seeing much more. The plant is the one submitting. Is this a training 
issue with how the plants are submitting. There is no LCF here need to load LCF, maybe plant doesn’t 
know they need to do or how to do it. Do they know how to load LCF? We need to do some testing on 
this to see what's happening. What's done on DR shouldn’t have an affect what's going to SAP
Issue 4: BOMs losing WIP codes from the tree
Mainly in bacon and ham products. To fix we detach and reattach the cooler shrink code. They 
have to rebuild the BOMs basically. Delete steps. Doug thought the trigger that broke it was spec 
change, however it appeared broken today, the only thing doug thinks is the not on bom check 
pinging it could be the trigger that's making it disconnect. We don’t know. Something is changing 
the data and we can't do anything about it. We need to troubleshoot 
Issue 5: Getting an error when trying to reattach whip. They will submit a ticket for this inc. Whips are 
attaching to finance not production bom. 12/12/2024
Thursday, December 12, 2024 11:04 AM
   BOM Support Page 521    
Issue 1: Percentages on Second Codes Disappearing
Description: Percentages for secondary codes disappeared after the cloud migration. Plants 
manually re -added the percentages, but they disappeared again, potentially due to a data 
discrepancy during cloud migration.•
Observations:
Percentages are not part of the specification and should not be affected by spec refreshes or 
changes.•
Discrepancy seems tied to how the BOM portal handles secondary codes.•
Refreshes may be causing timeouts or overwrites, affecting seconds codes.••
Issue 2: Missing Main Ingredient Flag and Incorrect Calculations
Description: A BOM lost its main ingredient flag, causing incorrect quantity calculations and cost 
estimations.•
Observations:
Incoming WIP on BOM didn’t include the main ingredient or star flag.•
Cost decreased by 50% due to missing values for seconds codes.•
Manual syncing of the WIP code restored the primary flag.••
Issue 3: SAP Phantom Quantity Issues
Description: Phantom quantities in SAP are incorrect after plant submissions. •
Observations:
Increased frequency of phantom -related issues after recent submissions. •
Reloading LC  may resolve the issue, but there’s uncertainty if plants understand how to 
properly load LCF.•
Requires testing to determine whether the issue is process -related or a system problem. ••
Issue 4: BOMs Losing WIP Codes from the Tree
Description: WIP codes are disappearing from the BOM tree, particularly in bacon and ham 
products.•
Observations:
Detaching and reattaching cooler shrink codes is a temporary fix.•
The issue may be triggered by spec changes or by the “not on BOM check.”•
Requires troubleshooting to identify the root cause.••
Issue 5: Errors When Reattaching WIP Codes
Description: Errors occur when trying to reattach WIP codes. •
Observations:
WIPs are attaching to finance BOMs, but seem to be problematic when attaching to 
production BOMs.•
A support ticket will be submitted for further investigation.••
   BOM Support Page 522    
   BOM Support Page 523    
INC3190804 –Recipe detail report not populating component scrap, any plant
Inc3258795 –Plant 2343 Material disappeared
Update: Was there any changes? It's an unchecked inventory point
INC3280932 –Material submission failure2/26/25
Wednesday, February 26, 2025 10:31 AM
   BOM Support Page 524    
When you come in the morning and see 20 in what –if status you know they are more than likely 
working on changes. 20 what -ifs. Does she ever look at change documentation for ESP publishing's, 
sometimes she checks yield and througput and things and checks while she approves
This one never had a standard but once moved over it populates ESP like it does have a standard
When we approve the one from 2022 should go away and manual throughput should populate
When we go in we hit the what if status card then we select all materials then action > approve what -ifsMass ESP Approvals
Thursday, February 27, 2025 2:01 PM
   BOM Support Page 525    
Appears to not fix the old one that is what –if only look at ones that wheren't backslammed and ESP 
Published yesterday
When they populated bom p forever ago, what -ifs existed and now we can't approve them 
Fresh ESP approval data for testing
Does not send to SAP Throws into edit but not submitted to SAP 
Mass Approve not working with ZCWP
   BOM Support Page 526    
INC3190804 Facing issues with CICD side, Zach fixed yesterday, checking QA, Support updated go -live 
tomorrow morning around 5/6 AM Validating before pushing to prod. Recipe detail report is now 
loading scrap as expected. 
INC3258795
Material dissapeared, This will be adressed by new development in the future
Inc 3280932
Plant not submitting to SAP correctly see attached email: Plant 2690. Support working with ESP Team
INC3295615
PDM issue spec change not hitting BOM Portal GSM payload is not populating. 
Requested PDM team to repush spec changes. Payload is not getting updated. 
1/3 refreshed other 2 payload did not populate plant 1504. Need to circle back with Kari to find root 
cause
Inc3296981
Spec refresh is stuck see attached plant 1257 material 16058100929 version 401
Refresh original failure, spec version is stuck, cant refresh. 
BOM Portal is Down
Issue with AWS Load Balancer, handles the traffic. The pod was up however it showed load balancer was 
unhealthy for that one. 03/04/25 Weekly Stand Up 
Tuesday, March 04, 2025 11:30 AM
   BOM Support Page 527    
Load balancer adresses network traffic from responses and each image allows the website to scale out 
and at the same time allow a bigger audience, the load balancer with AWS are VPC. Dedicated VPC
We went in to check the pods
Aws sso login configuration only if you installed kubernetes in local
It reattempted connection
Cluster contains multiple namespaces or multiple images of an application
Each namespace is a cluster of containers that are required for app to be setup 2133. 
Did a sanity check on the pods. 
Checked deployments and daemonsets
Checked load balancer for 2133 dedicated image. 
Specific listener 
Checked monitoring tab AWS 
Checked requests Peak norm is 791 requests average is 300Outage 3/5/
Wednesday, March 5, 2025 11:59 AM
   BOM Support Page 528    
Material & Resource Sync Failures in PreProd –EDM Auth Issues
Summary
Multiple material and plant resource sync failures have been observed in the PreProd environment of 
the BOM Portal. These failures are consistently occurring across multiple users, API endpoints, and 
plants. The root cause appears to be authorization failures between the BOM Portal and the EDM OData 
services in PreProd.
This issue is appears to be isolated to PreProd only 4/2/25 
Wednesday, April 02, 2025 1:00 PM
   BOM Support Page 529    
Seconds Issue in Recon Report
Doug Wolfe is seeing items not populating in the same manor of the seconds codes
Official product payload is not retrieving the material spec version, 
Andre to have working session with pradeep and harsha to see process when it comes to bom 
Payload retrieves step information which are labeled as material spec
Recon can't read both versions. 
How checksum is generated between bom portal and the payload
Why are primary materials showing up on the recon report where seconds should only be showing4/25/2025
Friday, April 25, 2025 1:27 PM
   BOM Support Page 530    
BOM Portal Adding a new step in ARS INC3373620
Bom Portal cant access Inc3376949
PRB0046187 –Report Inconsistencies
PRB0045995 –Value submitted not reflected in SAP
PRB0046186 –Plant 2343 unchecked point causing save issues
PRB0046002 –Approve what -if acitons not moving recipes to edit when done in bulk from home screen 
and subsequent issues identified. 5/2/2025
Friday, May 02, 2025 9:31 AM
   BOM Support Page 531    
Incidents and Problem Tickets
Not populating correct component scrap
Submit error sequence contains no matching element
Wrong quantity in SAP vs bom portal5/15/25
Thursday, May 15, 2025 10:04 AM
   BOM Support Page 532    
Bom submission not updating SAP mentioned by doug
There are some locations that 
INC3440003
CC-1 Plant 1176 -Material 16058720929 BOM portal submission is not updating SAP.
INC34300836/11/2025
Wednesday, June 11, 2025 10:01 AM
   BOM Support Page 533    
First analyze all the information in the chat. 
Determine what dependencies may exist on other tasks such as conversations needed to happen
Format so that each card is for jira and includes a title, how many points, a description, acceptance 
criteria, technical details. 
Please stick with agile principles such as As a blank I want to blank, so that blank. 
Greg is an IT Product Owner
Ayesha is a bom portal data reporter 
FY25 Q4.5 20 Aug -2 Sep
Greg –2 points -As an IT Product Owner I will review all updates to the BigQuery logic for the 
reconciliation with Phuong
I will loop in Ayesha to explain how we should handle the reporting side reconciliation in PowerBI
2 points –I will review updated powerBI based on the design documentation and the inclusion of the 
new component material query and update design documentation so that reporting is done in PowerBI 
while reconciliation remains in BIgQuery. (dependant on review with phuong and Ayesha)
Ayesha –2 pts
As a BOM Portal Data Reporter, I want to incorporate the new query into the PowerBI for component 
level reconciliation (dependent on EFI -5369 and review with phuong and Ayesha) I want to gain a clear 
understanding of how reporting is to be differentiated from reconciliation and how moving forward we 
will be doing all reporting tasks in powerBI. 
2 points
As a bom portal data reporter I want to update the report with each new query and update the logic to 
include all previously implemented additions such as descriptions and other fields not related strictly to 
the reconciliation logic ie (material, plant, bom_alt)Owner: Greg (IT Product Owner)
Points: 2
Sprint: FY25 Q4.5 
Title: PO review of reconciliation logic and reporting in BigQuery and PowerBI with Phuong
Description (User Story):
As an IT Product Owner, I want to review all updates to the BigQuery reconciliation logic with Phuong 
and confirm the approach, so that our reconciliation remains accurate, minimal, and aligned to agreed 
standards.
Acceptance Criteria:
A documented review with Phuong is completed; decisions and open items captured.•
Reconciliation scope confirmed: logic in BigQuery; reporting in Power BI.•
 inal “Reconciliation Guidelines” note updated and shared on card. •
Technical Details:
Validate use of except distinct•
Scope strictly limited to fields essential for reconciliation (no descriptive/reporting fields).•
Dependencies:
Phuong’s and Ayesha's availability for review.•
Latest reconciliation SQL and field mapping notes for each level of granularity (incl. component -
level query from EFI -5369)•
Owner: Greg (IT Product Owner)
Points: 2
Sprint: FY25 Q4.5 
Title:Refresh design doc to enforce “reconciliation in BQ, reporting in PBI”
Description (User Story):
As an IT Product Owner, I want to review the updated Power BI implementation with Ayesha and revise 
the design documentation, so that all reporting stays in Power BI and the BigQuery layer remains lean 
for reconciliation.
Acceptance Criteria:
Walkthrough of current PBI pages (including new component -level views) completed with Ayesha. •
Design doc updated to clearly separate concerns: reconciliation logic (BQ) vs. Visuals (PBI).•
Specific examples added to design documentation: which fields stay in BQ vs. which move to PBI.•
Link to the updated design doc posted with card. •
Technical Details:
Remove/report -only fields (descriptions, long texts, names) from BQ query specs. •
Confirm PBI handles joins/lookups for descriptive metadata (e.g., material/plant names)..•
Document input/outputs of the component -level reconciliation query. •
Dependencies:
Dependent on review with Phuong and Ayesha from first card•
Owner: Ayesha (BOM Portal Data Reporter)
Points: 2
Sprint: FY25 Q4.5 (Aug 20 –Sep 2)
Title: Add component -level reconciliation to Power BI
Description (User Story):
As a BOM Portal Data Reporter, I want to incorporate the new component -level reconciliation query 
into Power BI and clarify reporting vs. reconciliation boundaries, so that the report shows clear, accurate 
mismatch views while logic remains in BigQuery.
Acceptance Criteria:
New PBI page(s) added for component -level mismatches (Not on SAP / Not on BOM Portal). •
Filters on Plant, Material, BOM_Alt, Component_Material available and functional.•
Performance acceptable on standard slices (<= 5s refresh for typical filters).•
Short “What lives in PBI vs. BQ” note added to the report’s About/Info page.•
Reviewed with Greg; alignment message posted in team channel.•
Technical Details:
Connect to the finalized BQ query output (EFI -5369 if that’s the component feed). •
Use PBI to add descriptive fields (names, long text) and visuals only —no reconciliation logic 
duplication.•
Ensure consistent key formatting: zero -padded materials, 2 -char BOM_Alt. •
Implement bookmarks/slicer presets for common analyst workflows (optional but preferred).•
Dependencies:
EFI-5369 (component -level query) available and stable. •
Outcome from Card #1 and design doc updates from Card #2.•
Quick review with Phuong & Greg to confirm UX expectations.•
Owner: Ayesha (BOM Portal Data Reporter)
Points: 2
Sprint: FY25 Q4.5 (Aug 20 –Sep 2)
Title: Update report for new queries and preserve prior enhancements
Description (User Story):
As a BOM Portal Data Reporter, I want to update the Power BI report each time a new reconciliation 
query is introduced while preserving prior enhancements (descriptions and other report -only fields), so 
that the report stays consistent and comprehensive without polluting the BigQuery layer.
Acceptance Criteria:
Report refreshed to include the latest queries. •
Prior enhancements (descriptions, display names, non -reconciliation fields) remain visible and 
accurate.•
Consistent formatting behavior across all pages.•
Quick demo to Greg•
Technical Details:
Centralizelookups in PBI rather than BQ.•
Validate model relationships on the composite key surface (Plant, Material, BOM_Alt)•
avoid importing unnecessary columns from BQ.•
Adopt a repeatable pattern for adding new query outputs (naming, relationships, visuals).•
Dependencies:
Availability of new/updated BQ outputs from Greg's updated design documentation•
Coordination with Greg for acceptance walkthrough.•
Cross -card dependency map (quick view)
Card 1 (Greg w/ Phuong) → informs rules/boundaries for all other cards. •
Card 2 (Greg design doc refresh) → codifies boundaries; must precede finalization of Cards 3 –4. •
Card 3 (Ayesha PBI component -level)→ needs E I -5369 output + decisions from Cards 1 –2. •
Card 4 (Ayesha ongoing updates) → depends on new queries arriving + the boundaries from Card 2 to 
keep the model clean.•Timeline of Work & Dependencies
Step 1 –BigQuery Reconciliation Review (Greg & Phuong)
Greg meets with Phuong to review all updates to the BigQuery reconciliation logic.•
Scope, composite key, and field normalization rules are confirmed.•
Output is a documented decision log and any action items for SQL changes.•
Dependency impact: This decision log directly informs the design doc refresh and sets the boundaries 
for what belongs in BigQuery vs. Power BI.•
Step 2 –Power BI vs. BigQuery Boundaries + Design Doc Refresh (Greg & Ayesha)
Greg meets with Ayesha to review the updated Power BI implementation.•
Design documentation is revised to clearly separate reconciliation logic (BigQuery) from reporting 
(Power BI).•
Examples are documented for what fields should remain in BQ vs. be handled in PBI.•
Dependency impact: Must wait for Step 1 decisions before updating the design doc. This refresh sets 
the foundation for Ayesha’s reporting updates.•
Step 3 –Incorporate Component -Level Reconciliation Query in Power BI (Ayesha)
Ayesha adds the new component -level reconciliation query (EFI -5369) into Power BI. •
New PBI pages and filters for Plant, Material, BOM_Alt, and Component_Material are implemented.•
Short “Reporting vs. Reconciliation” summary is added inside the report for clarity.•
Dependency impact: Requires Step 1’s finalized reconciliation rules and Step 2’s design doc updates 
before building.•
Step 4 –Maintain & Update Power BI with New Queries (Ayesha)
Ayesha updates the PBI model with the latest queries while preserving prior enhancements (e.g., 
descriptions, non -reconciliation fields).•
Changelog/version notes are added for tracking updates.•
Dependency impact: Relies on the updated design doc (Step 2) to ensure future queries follow the 
established boundaries.•
Dependency Flow
Step 1 → Step 2 → Step 3 → Step 4 1.
If Step 1 slips, Steps 2 –4 will need to be rescheduled. 2.
EFI-5369 query delivery is an external dependency for Step 3. 3.
If you want, I can now also map these steps directly into a Jira -ready dependency view so the links 
between cards show up automatically in  ira’s backlog view. That way, you can drag them in sprint 
planning without losing the sequence.8/13
Tuesday, August 12, 2025 2:09 PM
   Sprint Planning Page 534    
Full Notes for Follow -Up with Business Regarding BOM Templates and Inventory Creation
1. Deletion of BOM Templates
Intention: Confirm if there is an intention to allow the deletion of BOM templates. •
Process: If deletion is intended, outline the process and any restrictions or conditions for deletion. •
2. Types of Inventories
Inventory Types: Clarify the two different inventory types that can be created within the template 
level: APB (Unplanned Stopping Point) and Plant Inventory Points.•
Inventory Addition: Confirm that the method of adding inventory is the same for both types. •
3. Inventory Point Details
Location: Address where exactly the inventory point exists. •
Material Number and Type: Specify the material number and type. •
Step: Identify the step in the process where the inventory point is added.•
4. Intraplant Materials (ZCWP)
Phantom BOMs: Confirm that phantoms come from the formula specification and are contained in the 
formulation itself, not added into the BOM template as an inventory point.•
Phantom Collection: Ensure that phantom BOMs are treated as their own collection, a collection of 
materials wrapped into a single reference.•
Phantom Specification: When creating phantoms, specify the step, which should already come from 
the formulation specification (PDM dictates where the phantom lives).•
5. Template and Inventory Creation
New Template: When inventory is created, there will be a new template that refers to the formulation 
specification, specific to the plant.•
Sub BOM Template References: Versions can only be created from the corporate formulation 
template as a whole. Sub BOM templates reflect the need to create a batch process.•
Version Creation: Confirm that versions cannot be created out of sub BOM templates but only for the 
corporate BOM template. The version of the APB will mirror the sub BOM and cannot live without the 
upper reference.•
6. Data Entry and SAP Publishing
Required Fields: Ensure that all required fields for settings for BOMs are entered before publishing to 
SAP.•
Questions to Follow Up:
1. Deletion of BOM Templates
Is there an intention to allow the deletion of BOM templates? If so, what are the conditions or 
restrictions for deletion?•
2. Inventory Creation
Can you confirm the types of inventories that can be created within the template level (APB and Plant 
Inventory Points)?•
Where exactly do these inventory points exist within the process?•
3. Phantom BOMs
Can you confirm that phantoms are not added into the BOM template as inventory points but are 
treated as their own collection?•
How should the step for phantoms be specified, and is it dictated by the formulation specification?•
4. Template and Version Creation
Can you confirm that versions can only be created from the corporate formulation template and not 
from sub BOM templates?•
How does the version of the APB mirror the sub BOM, and what are the dependencies?•
5. Data Entry and SAP Publishing
What are the required fields for settings for BOMs to ensure they can be published to SAP?•
Next Steps:
Schedule a Meeting: Arrange a meeting with relevant business stakeholders to discuss these points •BOM Templates
Monday, June 16, 2025 2:35 PM
   BOM Forge Page 535    
Schedule a Meeting: Arrange a meeting with relevant business stakeholders to discuss these points 
and questions.•
Send an Email: Draft an email to follow up with the business on these points. •
Document Responses: Update the BOM template creation and inventory process guidelines based on 
the responses.•
   BOM Forge Page 536    
Clarifying Treatment of Seconds, Byproducts, and Rework in BOM Templates
1. Open Questions
It is currently unclear whether the business still requires the ability to add “seconds” in a BOM template
that are not present in the formulation coming from PDM.•
2. Definitions and Business Context
Seconds
A seconds material refers to a lower -quality alternative that can provide the same output as the 
primary component.•
These are typically derived from the PDM formulation . •
Example: If a high -quality material is unavailable, a seconds material may substitute while still producing 
the same finished good.•
Byproducts
Byproducts are the expected waste or residual output from a formulation. •
They are defined on the formula specification in PDM. •
Example: Egg shells —inedible and not further processed, but still classified as a byproduct. •
Rework
Rework is plant -specific and depends on the facility’s process and production line . •
Rework is not part of the original formulation and must be added manually . •
Input Rework : A material needing reprocessing (e.g., a returned salami stick). •
Output Rework : The processed version, essentially cloning the rework. •
Reworks can be added or removed manually , but if a rework cannot be reintroduced , it should not be 
deleted .•
Inedible Products
Considered a form of byproduct or low -quality material. •
Not consumable or usable in further production.•
3. BOM Templates vs. Subtemplates
Template
Represents a standardized structure for a full recipe or formulation. •
Used to model the primary flow of production.•
Subtemplate
Used to represent specific sequences of operations that vary across production lines or cost centers. •
Essential when different resources or cost structures apply within the same formulation. •
Each batch processed may correspond to a different operation or step requiring its own subtemplate. •
Summary
Element Defined In PDM Added Manually Purpose
Seconds ✅   (if outside PDM )Alternative material for same outputWorking Session With Business
Tuesday, June 17, 2025 3:32 PM
   BOM Forge Page 537    
Seconds ✅   (if outside PDM )Alternative material for same output
Byproducts ✅ ❌ Expected waste or secondary output
Rework ❌ ✅ Material needing reprocessing (input/output)
Inedibles ✅(as byproducts) ❌ Non -consumable outputs (e.g., shells, scraps)
   BOM Forge Page 538    
Purpose of Adding ZCWP within BOM Portal
Background & Business Context
Shannon is proposing a new modeling approach in the BOM Portal.•
Some business requirements are derived from existing legacy functionality.•
In the legacy BOM Portal, recipes and formulation steps are cloned based on how many attachments 
they have.•
The goal is to simplify the structure while maintaining the full workflow from conception to grave.•
Key Changes & Concepts
1. Shift from Formulation Attachments to Material References
Instead of attaching formulations or recipes, materials will now be directly referenced.•
These materials serve as representations of inventory points, not full formulations.•
This approach simplifies the process —no inventories, just materials. •
2. Unchecked Inventory Points as Material References
An unchecked inventory point is a reference to a material being consumed.•
There’s no need to attach a full formulation to represent the step.•
These references indicate how the material is handled (e.g., batch vs. continuous process).•
3. ZCWP Material Logic
ZCWP is a material -only reference used to create an inventory point, e.g., “Tyson Costing WHIP.” •
It represents the handoff of materials from one stage to another in production.•
ZCWP materials may differ across plants or versions but always occur at the same formulation step.•
These materials can be:•
Intraplant only•
Plant inventory materials•
APB materials•
Production Use Case –Chicken Tender Workflow
Primary Input : Chicken + solution mix. •
First Step : Blending (inventory point). •
Challenge : The tender cannot be fully produced on a single line. •
Solution : Create batches and ZCWP materials to track flow between lines. •
Output : Final packaged chicken tender. •
This setup allows:
Batches to represent production steps for costing and throughput tracking.•
Movement across production lines with clear material references, not formulation clones.•
Benefits of the ZCWP Material Approach
Simplification : Eliminates complex formulation attachments and sub -BOMs. •
Consistency : Inventory points always align with the same formulation step. •
Clarity : Users see only the material consumed, making the process more intuitive. •
Flexibility : Enables distinct BOM versions by referencing different ZCWP materials. •
Structure : Maintains 1:1 relationship between BOM template and version, even when decoupling •Sub BOM Template/Inventory Points
Wednesday, June 25, 2025 1:03 PM
   BOM Forge Page 539    
Structure : Maintains 1:1 relationship between BOM template and version, even when decoupling 
continuous processes.•
   BOM Forge Page 540    
Certainly! Here’s a structured approach to starting the meeting, including key questions to ask and 
addressing current pain points from both an IT Product Owner and Business Analyst perspective.
Starting the Meeting
Opening Remarks
Welcome and Introductions: 
"Good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining today's meeting. Let's start with a quick round 
of introductions for those who may not know each other, I'll start. I'm greg Homstad I'm the IT 
Product Owner for BOM Portal•1.
Meeting Objective: 
"The purpose of today's meeting is to discuss the enhancement request for the BOM Portal, 
specifically the introduction of discontinuation at the BOM level. We will also touch on the 
current pain points and gather requirements for the enhancement.•2.
Agenda Overview: 
"Here's a brief overview of our agenda: 
Review the current limitations and the requested enhancement.1.
Discuss the business case and use cases.2.
Identify pain points and gather detailed requirements.3.
Outline next steps and assign action items."4.•3.
Questions to Ask
Understanding the Business Case
Current Limitations: 
"Can you elaborate on the current limitations of the discontinuation functionality at the material 
level?"•
"How does this limitation impact your day -to-day operations and decision -making?" •1.
Requested Enhancement: 
"Can you provide more details on the requested enhancement for discontinuation at the BOM 
level?"•
"What specific functionalities are you looking for in this enhancement?"•2.
Use Cases: 
"Can you share specific scenarios or use cases where the current limitation has caused issues?"•
"How would the new functionality improve these scenarios?"•3.
Gathering Requirements
Functional Requirements: 
"What specific fields and data points need to be included in the BOM Portal for this 
enhancement?"•
"Are there any specific workflows or processes that need to be supported?"•1.
Non -Functional Requirements: 
"Are there any performance, scalability, or security considerations we need to keep in mind?"•
"What are the expected response times and user load for this functionality?"•2.
Integration and Dependencies: 
"Are there any other systems or tools that this enhancement needs to integrate with?"•
"Are there any dependencies or prerequisites we should be aware of?"•3.
Addressing Pain Points
Current Pain Points: 
"What are the main pain points you are experiencing with the current BOM Portal?"•
"How do these pain points affect your productivity and efficiency?"•1.
Improvement Areas: 
"Are there any other areas of the BOM Portal that you feel need improvement?"•
"What features or functionalities would you like to see in future updates?"•2.
Closing the Meeting
Summarizing Key Points
Recap: 
"To summarize, we discussed the current limitations, the requested enhancement, and gathered 
detailed requirements. We also identified key pain points and areas for improvement."•1.
Next Steps: 
"The next steps will be to document the requirements and create a Business Requirements 
Document (BRD). We will also prioritize this enhancement in the backlog and schedule follow -up 
meetings as needed."•2.
Action Items: 
"Let's quickly go over the action items and assign responsibilities: 
[Name] will document the requirements and create the BRD.•
[Name] will prioritize the enhancement in the backlog.•
[Name] will schedule the follow -up meetings." ••3.
Closing Remarks: 
"Thank you all for your valuable input and time today. If there are no further questions or 
comments, we will conclude the meeting. Have a great day!"•4.
Additional Tips
Be Prepared: Have all relevant documents and data ready before the meeting. •
Stay Focused: Keep the discussion on track and ensure all agenda items are covered. •
Encourage Participation: Make sure everyone has a chance to speak and contribute. •
By following this structured approach, you can ensure that the meeting is productive and that all necessary 
information is gathered to move forward with the enhancement request.In material requirements planning (MRP), the discontinuation data in the material master 
record transfers dependent requirements for a material component that is no longer in 
stock (in sufficient quantities) to a follow -up material. You can also specify a follow -up 
material for an item in a BOM. The data for this is maintained as Discontinuation data.
Chris supports plant planning material planning bom portal training
Rich O'Connor –same function as chris make sure plant folks know how to use plant planning 
applications
Discontinuation –standard concept in SAP, project philadelphia, SAP was implemented without 
knowledge of discontinuation for ECC previous versions
Quarterly business review for 
When an Item is transitioning, mrp just gives requirements on whats in the bom transition into new 
material. Fields within material master, component material. Walmart changes logo, box logo changes 
new box. Run out of whatever we have in inventory prior to ordering new box. Component material is 
changing. For existing material when effective date, based on any requirements you input in material 
master, continue ordering old material, after date, new material. 
Basically a way to push demand later than effective date over to the new item. Requirements list on 
process order and planned order. Apply bom, bom explosion, if you've got a discontinuation 
A box is for a finished good 
Potato Starch goes into 20 items, a spec and a bom are a match, 20 items use potato starch, they take 7 
of those items and change to corn starch. With material master we can't separate which at which from 
material level but we can at bom level. 
BOM Portals ability to reflect spec changes. SAP has standard solution
We don't want plants touching boms on their own we want to activate the ability to use standard SAP 
function. Eventually those specs will hit bom portal for those 7 items. 
Pain points: inbetween when we can't get spec updated in time
Okay, keep current BOM with potato starch 10/1, on 10/1 new corn starch. 
Today as we say as soon as new spec is out the old one is gone. 
Process for Discontinuation for a particular ingredient:
No new official spec that consumes new ingredient. 
At the material level is the discontinuation. 
We input these fields to change future requirements. 
Not on spec = not going to be part of production. 
How to implement this mb04 screen discontinuation. 
Material requirements: right amount of ingrediaents packaging for production plan
Stock/requirements screen is used to do this. 
MRP = material requirements planning, when we get down to zero, mrp creates suggested purchase 
requisition. 
Effective out date: says this is the date we anticipate to transition to new spec
Discontinuation indicator
SAP has functionality, however we are not using it. We need to be able to access those fields. 
How to do this? BOM templates and BOM versions Paramater at a component level we need a place to 
put in paramter to pass over to SAP, 
Regarding planning of component requisition is normally produced at a specific bom type. Doesn’t need 
to happen at finance BOM, just production. 
Can we do this with bom templates, bom versions, effective date? For production boms, need to ask 
cost accounting. Currently we produce recipe's currently bom portal is recipe's now we try to pivot to 
actual BOM, leading process, costing realm. How can we do this at a data level. Bom effective date 
currently another field within the components, we will need to reconvene when we defin data schema 
scope, this seems to happen at SAP interface level, new data field within bom structure, need to see 
how it will be normalized from a version perspective, since we just need this at production level. Which 
level will this exist exclusive to bom type, version, plant, etc. We need to put regulations in place to 
avoid further 
Reinvision how bomforge publishes bom to SAP and see how it's going to be integrated Discontinuation Process & BOM Portal Integration
 Key Stakeholders & Roles
Chris / Rich O'Connor : •
Support plant users and train them on Plant Planning and Material Planning tools.•
Ensure plants are aware of how to use the Plant Planning applications, including BOM Portal and SAP 
tools.•
 Background: SAP & Discontinuation
Discontinuation is a standard concept in SAP. •
Was not understood or implemented in older ECC versions (pre -Philadelphia project). •
SAP’s solution exists but is not currently activated or used at Tyson. •
 Business Use Case Example
A box is the packaging for a finished good. •
Potato starch is used across 20 BOMs. •
We want to replace 7 of them with corn starch . •
Material master can't isolate which BOMs use the old vs. new spec, but the BOM level can. •
 How Discontinuation Works in SAP
Add discontinuation indicator in material master . •
Use effective date to stop planning for old material and push requirements to new material. •
This allows:•
MRP to suggest purchase requisitions correctly.•
BOM explosion to pick the correct component.•
Transitioning demand smoothly (e.g., box artwork changes for Walmart).•
 Current Pain Points
No current process to support gradual spec transitions in BOM Portal.•
Today, once a spec is updated, the old one disappears —no overlap. •
No way to push demand beyond the effective date for old materials. •
No official place in current schema to house a discontinuation field at the component level . •
  What We Need
Component -level support for: •
Discontinuation flags•
Support for this logic in:•
BOM Templates•
BOM Versions•
Functionality should apply to Production BOMs , not Finance. •
Must be normalized across:•
Plant•
BOM Type (Production only)•
Version•
 Strategic Direction
Reinvision how BOMForge publishes BOMs to SAP . •
Determine where and how to introduce new data fields for discontinuation logic. •
Create clear regulatory/permission structures to prevent manual BOM edits at the plant level. •
Involve Cost Accounting for versioning and template governance. •
Normalize schema in alignment with SAP interface level integration.•
 Next Steps
Define where the discontinuation field will live in the BOM schema. 1.
Assess impacts on versioning and SAP synchronization.2.
Validate with Cost Accounting and Business.3.
Reconvene to finalize data model scope and schema rules . 4.
Prototype how this will appear in the BOM Portal UI & SAP export logic.5.Meeting around Discontinuation
Monday, July 07, 2025 7:23 AM
   BOM Forge Page 541    
1. Application Security (AppSec)
Why It’s a Match
Focuses on secure coding, code reviews, threat modeling, and web application firewalls.•
Involves DevSecOps, source code review, and API security —key areas for penetration testers. •
Core Skills
OWASP Top 10•
Secure Development Lifecycle (SDLC)•
Threat Modeling (e.g., STRIDE)•
API & Mobile App Security•
Source Code Review (SAST/DAST)•
Tools to Learn
Burp Suite•
OWASP ZAP•
Postman / Insomnia (API testing)•
SonarQube•
Checkmarx, Veracode•
Recommended Certifications
eWPT –eLearnSecurity Web Application Penetration Tester •
OSWE –Offensive Security Web Expert •
CSSLP –Certified Secure Software Lifecycle Professional •
Next Steps
Participate in secure code review or threat modeling at work•
Practice on vulnerable web apps such as OWASP Juice Shop•
Automate common test cases like login brute -force or API fuzzing •
2. Vulnerability Management / Pentesting Simulation
Why It’s a Match
Involves scanning, identifying, and simulating exploitation of vulnerabilities.•
A good fit for those who enjoy finding, ranking, and documenting security issues.•
Core Skills
Vulnerability lifecycle management•
CVE research and exploit verification•
Patch Management•
Risk Scoring (CVSS)•
Report Writing (Risk -Based) •
Tools to Learn
Nessus•
Qualys•
OpenVAS•
Nmap / Nikto•
Metasploit•
Recommended Certifications
CompTIA PenTest+•
eJPT –Junior Penetration Tester •
OSCP –Offensive Security Certified Professional •
Next Steps
Set up a home lab with vulnerable virtual machines•
Scan and audit your own systems using Nessus or OpenVAS•
Practice CVE exploitation in a sandbox environment (TryHackMe, VulnHub)•
3. SOC / Incident Response (SOC/IR)
Why It’s a Match
Focuses on detecting, simulating, and responding to threat actor behavior.•
Offers exposure to red team tactics and MITRE ATT&CK -based defense. •
Core Skills
Red/Blue Team Tactics•
MITRE ATT&CK Framework•
SIEM and Log Analysis•
Social Engineering•
Lateral Movement and Persistence Techniques•
Tools to Learn
Cobalt Strike•
BloodHound•
PowerShell Empire•
Splunk / IBM QRadar•
Wireshark•
Recommended Certifications
GCFA –GIAC Certified Forensic Analyst •
CRTP –Certified Red Team Professional •
OSCP or CRTO –Certified Red Team Operator •
Next Steps
Join CTFs such as HackTheBox or TryHackMe•
App Sec
Code dev
CICD
Infrastructure as code
Traditional
.net, abap, cics, sql, java, 3rdparty, open source
OS –licensing challenges 
-SBOM software bill of materials // this is crucial
Custom libraries. 
SAST –static code analysis. Buffer overflow, runtime  -soft fail
DAST –Dynamic software scanning, can I us –hard fail
SCA –component level vulnerability code libraries -
One sme dedicated to app security 
Anything with an input and output is vulnerable
3rdparty risk management services 
Bitsite, security scorecard,
Republish pipeline ci/cd group they need to establish Areas of Interest 
Friday, May 02, 2025 9:41 AM
   Matt Bunch Mentorship Page 542    
Join CTFs such as HackTheBox or TryHackMe•
Build an Active Directory lab to simulate lateral movement•
Practice aligning attacks and defenses with MITRE ATT&CK mapping•
Final Recommendation
Start with foundational certifications such as the eJPT or CompTIA PenTest+ and build a home lab to 
explore multiple tracks. Based on your preferences:
Choose Application Security if you enjoy testing and breaking web apps or APIs •
Choose Vulnerability Management if you prefer identifying and reporting enterprise risks •
Choose SOC/IR & Red Teaming if you're interested in adversarial simulations and detection 
bypass•
   Matt Bunch Mentorship Page 543    
Hi John,
I hope you’re doing well. Since I wasn’t able to attend the meeting this morning, I wanted to follow up to 
clarify your expectations for what Rohi and I should accomplish during our meeting. I want to make sure 
I'm aligned with the project's goals. I noticed some discrepancies between the jira board and the agile 
plan document for phase two is that supposed to be a reflection of what's in Jira? Rohi to schedule UI 
sessions. Greg analyst.What should I focus on 
Template: Use the Epic -template for organization.  Copy it for each epic. User stories in Jira are 
hit/miss. If information is valuable keep it. Jerry to use breakout groups story listing to fill in Jira 
stories.•
Jerry has these Backlog Review sessions every day. We can use these sessions to ensure the group 
is aligned. Everyone on the team is a leader, create breakout sessions on your own to flush these 
out.••
Story ID Title Description Acceptance Criteria Technical 
Details
US001 User Login As a user, I want to log 
in to the application so 
that I can access my 
data -User can enter username and 
password<br> -User receives feedback on 
incorrect credentials<br> -User is 
redirected to the dashboard upon 
successful login 
US002 Profile 
Update As a user, I want to 
update my profile so 
that my information is 
current -User can update their name, email, and 
profile picture<br> -Changes are saved and 
reflected immediately<br> -User receives 
confirmation of successful update 
US003 Password 
Recovery As a user, I want to 
recover my password 
so that I can regain 
access -User can request a password reset 
link<br> -User receives an email with the 
reset link<br> -User can set a new 
password using the link 
US004 Email 
Notification 
Settings As a user, I want to 
manage my email 
notifications so that I 
can reduce spam -User can enable or disable email 
notifications<br> -User can select specific 
types of notifications to receive<br> -
Changes are saved and reflected in the 
user's settings 
Preparation and Clarification of Requirements
Schedule the Meeting :
Arrange a time for you and Rohi to meet to review UI stories.○
Prepare a list of the stories you want to discuss.○•
Review UI Stories :
During the meeting, lead the discussion on identifying:
Missing requirements: Note any ambiguities or lack of information.•
Dependencies: Identify any interdependencies with other stories or components.•
Acceptance criteria: Ensure each story has clear acceptance criteria for success.•••
Specific Tasks for EFI 2639 and 2629 :
Break down the requirements for these specific stories.•
Confirm details with John during or after the meeting if you find anything unclear.••
Create the Epic Template :
Use the Epic template to document UI -related stories. •
Organize them in a structured manner for clarity, ensuring that each story links back to the 
overall objective.••
Plan and Host a UI Breakout Session
Help Define Session Agenda :
Collaborate with Rohi to create a focused agenda for the breakout session.•
Ensure that the agenda covers all critical aspects of the UI requirements and discussions.•
Participate Actively in the Breakout Session :
Facilitate discussions around UX design requirements and ensure all key elements are 
addressed.•
Provide input on IAM integration and authorization specifics based on your analysis.•
Document Key Decisions :
Take notes on decisions made during the session, particularly regarding the 
development of API endpoints and other workflows.••••
Task Breakdown and Jira Updates
Define Tasks for Development :
After the breakout session, work on breaking down stories into specific tasks.•
Assign tasks to developers where appropriate, considering the details discussed.••
Update Jira :
Regularly check and update the Jira board with the latest task statuses.•
Ensure that all UI -related tasks have clear acceptance criteria, functional requirements, and 
technical details.••
Design, Development, and Testing Checkpoints
Schedule Weekly Syncs :
Propose a recurring weekly sync with Rohi and any relevant stakeholders to review 
progress.•
Prepare an agenda for each meeting to ensure discussions stay focused.•
Prepare Test Cases :
Collaborate with the testing team to draft test cases for integration testing and UAT 
based on the UI stories.•
Ensure that test cases cover key workflows and user scenarios.•••
Backlog Reviews and Daily Standups
Engage in Daily Backlog Review Sessions :
Attend  erry’s daily sessions and contribute by providing updates on the UI stories and any 
blockers.•
Use these sessions to align with the team on priorities and ensure that UI tasks are on track.•
Participate in Daily Standups :
Provide updates on your tasks during standups, highlighting any challenges or needs 
for assistance.•
Collaborate with Rohi and other team members to adjust plans based on feedback 
and discussion.•••
Additional Considerations:
Maintain Open Communication :
Regularly communicate with Rohi and the development team to ensure alignment and 
address any issues as they arise.••
Document Everything :
Keep thorough documentation of all discussions, decisions, and changes made throughout 
the process for future reference and transparency.••1. Initial Review and Assessment
Start by Reviewing the Backlog :
Open the backlog and skim through the user stories and tasks.•
Identify which stories are most relevant to your current objectives, especially those related 
to UI and the specific projects like EFI 2639 and 2629.••
2. Identify Key User Stories
Select User Stories to Focus On :
Choose a small number of high -priority or critical user stories that need immediate 
attention. This will help prevent overwhelm.•
Look for stories with unclear requirements, dependencies, or acceptance criteria.••
3. Schedule a Team Meeting
Gather Your Team :
Schedule a meeting with Rohi and any other relevant team members (e.g., developers, UX 
designers) to discuss your findings.••
Meeting Agenda :
Review selected user stories together.•
Identify any gaps in information or clarity.•
Discuss dependencies and whom to reach out to for further information (e.g., UX team).••
4. Clarify Requirements
During the Meeting :
Go through the selected user stories one by one.•
Document any missing requirements, dependencies, or unclear acceptance criteria.•
Note down any points that require reaching out to other teams for clarification (like UX).••
5. Set Clear Action Items
Define Next Steps :
Assign action items to team members for each identified gap (e.g., “Rohi will reach out to 
the UX team about design specifications for story X”).•
Ensure that each action item has a responsible person and a timeline.••
6. Create a Prioritized Action Plan
Organize the Backlog :
Based on the discussions, create a prioritized list of user stories that need to be addressed. 
This will guide your work moving forward.••
Use the Epic Template :
Begin documenting user stories in the Epic template for better organization.••
7. Engage with Stakeholders
Reach Out :
For any user stories requiring input from the UX team or other stakeholders, start initiating 
those conversations.•
Set up meetings or send emails to gather the necessary information.••
8. Start Small
Pick One or Two User Stories :
Once you've clarified requirements and dependencies for a couple of stories, begin breaking 
them down into actionable tasks.•
This will help you build momentum without feeling overwhelmed.••
9. Regular Check -Ins
Establish a Weekly Sync :
Set a recurring meeting to review progress on the selected user stories and tasks.•
Use this time to identify any blockers and adjust your plans as needed.••Hi John,
I hope you’re doing well. Since I couldn’t attend this morning’s meeting, I wanted to clarify a few things 
regarding your expectations for Rohi and me in our upcoming meeting. I’d like to ensure we’re fully 
aligned with the project’s goals and address some points of discrepancy I’ve noticed.
I see some differences between the current Jira board and the Agile plan document for phase two. 
Should the Agile plan document directly reflect the details in Jira? Also, we will handle scheduling the UI 
sessions, but are there specific objectives or outcomes you’d like us to prioritize?
To confirm my next steps:
Organization : I’ll use the Epic template as suggested, duplicating it for each Epic. 1.
Jira User Stories : I noticed some inconsistencies in the user stories, with some lacking details. 
Would you like us to retain valuable information as -is or refine these in a separate session?2.
Breakout Sessions : It sounds like we should use  erry’s daily Backlog Review sessions for team 
alignment. Should Rohi and I lead additional breakout sessions to solidify the story details or focus 
mainly on the sessions Jerry leads?3.
Thanks for your guidance on what to prioritize. Below is a summary template for the user stories we’ll 
be working on:
Story ID | Title | Description | Acceptance Criteria | Technical Details
US001 : User Login -Enables users to log in to access their data.
Criteria : Username/password entry, incorrect credential feedback, dashboard redirection on 
success.•
US002 : Profile Update -Allows users to update their profile for current information.
Criteria : Update fields like name, email, profile picture, and confirmation on save. •
US003 : Password Recovery -Provides password reset for regaining access.
Criteria : Reset link request, email delivery, new password setup. •
US004 : Email Notification Settings -Manages notification preferences to control 
spam.
Criteria : Enable/disable notifications, specify types, save changes in settings. •••
Let me know if this aligns with your expectations, and thank you again for the direction!
Best,
Greg••
Hi John,
I wanted to follow up on a few things to clarify your expectations for Rohi and me ahead of our next 
meeting. I’d like to make sure we’re aligned with the project’s goals and address any questions about 
the work at hand.
I noticed some differences between the Jira board and the Agile plan document for phase two. Should 
the Agile plan document and what we insert into loop mirror the details in  ira? Additionally, we’ll be 
handling the scheduling of UI sessions —are there particular goals or outcomes you’d like us to 
emphasize? Could you also share any guidelines on the scheduling process, such as who we should reach 
out to and any specific tasks we should follow to best support the project.
Thank you for your direction on these points —I appreciate your help in keeping us on track.
Best,
GregShould the Agile plan document fully reflect the details in the Jira board, or is it okay if there are 
slight differences?•
Are there specific objectives you’d like us to focus on during the upcoming UI sessions?•
Who should we contact to coordinate the scheduling of UI sessions, and is there a preferred 
process for doing so?•
Would you like us to refine any user stories in Jira during the Backlog Review sessions, or should 
we handle that separately?•
Specific Tasks for EFI 2639 and 2629 :
Break down the requirements for these specific stories.••
Agile Plan Global Source estimate some of it is based on phase 1 stuff 
Determine what other UI's we need to have 
Me and rohi need to identify what UI's we need to build is this a good estimate Draft BOM Template 
Editing UI engage UX teams 76 days we gonna deliver 3uis meetings with the business
Get with ben to see what to kind of 
A new ui component library story we don't know if the ux team is going to hold us to that they want to 
have meetings with business and collaboration with UX team and business. 
First week talk about the dashboard  partnership between developers analysts and UX team we need to 
be clear with what we are deliveringa nd how many screens and identify for  this space what are those 
screens? Get them with UX team understand what all they expect us as far as deliverables show them 
agile plan. Look at the stories see whats valuable load into loop and then jerry makes stories in jira. Have 
a page to our own so UI Epic will be a separate page.  
UI Requirements : Identify additional UIs needed for the project. Rohi and I need to assess which UIs to 
build—confirm if the current estimate is accurate.•
Draft BOM Template : We need to create and edit a BOM template UI and engage the UX teams. Target 
timeline is 76 days, with a deliverable of three UIs.•
Follow up with Ben for clarification on requirements and how he approached ux team
New UI Component Library : A new story is developing for a UI component library; uncertain if the UX 
team will require adherence. Meetings with the business and collaboration with the UX team are 
anticipated.•
First Week Focus -Dashboard : Discuss dashboard requirements and establish a clear partnership among 
developers, analysts, and the UX team. Define and clarify deliverables, screen counts, and identify 
specific screens for this space.•
Collaboration with UX Team : Meet with the UX team to clarify deliverables that will be needed from us, 
review the Agile plan, and understand their expectations. Review user stories to assess value and load 
into the loop.•
Jira and Documentation :  erry will translate valuable stories from loop into  ira entries. We’ll have a 
dedicated UI Epic page, kept separate for clarity.•10/29 Phase 2 w/ Rohi
Tuesday, October 29, 2024 12:23 PM
   UXUI Feature Page 544    
Use this time to identify any blockers and adjust your plans as needed.•
10. Document Everything
Keep Notes :
Document discussions, decisions, and any changes made to user stories or the backlog for 
future reference.••
   UXUI Feature Page 545    
Allow a way for them to view spec changes in bulk. 
Ability to take action on mass BOMs
Tab limit with how many tabs we can open a ceiling of 10 would be good. Open selected instead of 
open all
Approve what –if under more actions 
What types of actions?
Follow up with developers to create custom views and configs based off user. 
Any place there is an inventory point I would expect a color. Black with outline for phantoms or 
unchecked inventory
Add back functionality to seconds test we need to change to byproduct if needed and duplicate if 
necessary 
We gotta be able to adjust value non -globally. 
Follow up on deletions and terminations. 5/16/2025
Friday, May 16, 2025 9:47 AM
   UXUI Feature Page 546    
We are working with global source to define business requirements 5 or more hours to define all 
functional specs that are needed. Shannon and Andre to validate. Then they will make business 
requirements. Functional Specifications 
BOM FORGE 2025 -> BOM -Data facts.xlsx
Cost Center –BOM Template 8 digit format first 4 digits plant reference, last four cost code. 
Data must be brought from master data reference call center from GCP
Do user's know which cost center to use? We will populate the cost center table. 
We discussed when we are creating bom templates the authoritive layer in a bom version that must 
corelate to this layer. Every template can only have a single finance version. 
Copacker plants will have a template for production. We need to tie exclusivity to the finance. They 
cannot create any other bom type if the finance bom doesn’t exist. Only applicable for non -copacker 
plants
For co -packer plants they do not create finance versions at all they create production versions. 
Each bom template can only have 1 bom version, every new version will.
Each template will be unique combination of cost center and material, if same material is defined it 
must have different cost center. 
No multiple finance versions. 
Standards when we create versions we need to define what will work best for us. We will have the 
engineering in manual.
Managing standards conversation around
Formulation suspend point and resume point. 
Inventory Points ZCWP's
Lots of discussions around zcwp's how they are defined either formulation or bom template
We have defined that there are 4 types of zcwp's none willl create an inventory point for this matter. 
Our business partners gave data core rules for zcwp's given a plant inventory point will always be 
No matter where we produce the template the zcwp will be introduced at the same step within the 
formulation composition. A formulation will have a zcwp for the same step no matter where it is 
produced we can make a check or toggle reference for that step containing a given material. 
Would it make sense to demonstrate that this freeze step is an intermediate bom template. Meeting Notes: BOM FORGE 2025 Project
Participants: Shannon, Andre, Global Source Team
Objective: Define business requirements and functional specifications.
Key Points Discussed:
Business Requirements Definition: 
Collaborating with Global Source to define business requirements.•
Estimated time: 5+ hours to define all functional specifications.•
Shannon and Andre will validate the requirements.•
Post -validation, they will finalize the business requirements and functional specifications.•1.
BOM -Data Facts: 
Document: BOM -Data Facts.xlsx •2.
Cost Center –BOM Template: 
Format: 8 -digit (First 4 digits: plant reference, Last 4 digits: cost code). •
Data Source: Master data reference call center from GCP.•
Question: Do users know which cost center to use? We will populate the cost center table.•3.
BOM Templates: 
Each BOM template can only have a single finance version.•
Copacker plants will have a template for production and must tie exclusivity to the finance BOM.•
Non-copacker plants cannot create any other BOM type if the finance BOM doesn’t exist.•
Co-packer plants do not create finance versions; they create production versions.•
Each BOM template will be a unique combination of cost center and material. If the same 
material is defined, it must have a different cost center.•
No multiple finance versions allowed.•
Standards: Define what will work best for us when creating versions. Engineering will be 
documented manually.•4.
Managing Standards: 
Discussion around managing standards and ensuring consistency.•5.
Formulation Suspend and Resume Points: 
Discussion on how to handle formulation suspend and resume points.•6.
Inventory Points (ZCWP's): 
Defined 4 types of ZCWP's; none will create an inventory point.•
Core rules for ZCWP's provided by business partners.•
Inventory point will always be introduced at the same step within the formulation composition, 
regardless of production location.•
A formulation will have a ZCWP for the same step no matter where it is produced.•
Consideration: Would it make sense to demonstrate that this freeze step is an intermediate 
BOM template?•7.
Follow -Up Questions:
Cost Center Usage: 
How will we ensure users know which cost center to use?•
What is the process for populating the cost center table?•1.
BOM Templates: 
Can we clarify the process for creating finance and production versions for both copacker and 
non-copacker plants?•
What are the specific steps to ensure each BOM template is unique in terms of cost center and 
material?•2.
Managing Standards: 
What specific standards need to be documented in the engineering manual?•
How will we ensure consistency in managing these standards?•3.
Formulation Suspend and Resume Points: 
What are the criteria for defining suspend and resume points in formulations?•4.
Inventory Points (ZCWP's): 
Can we get more details on the 4 types of ZCWP's?•
How will we ensure that the ZCWP is introduced at the same step within the formulation 
composition across different production locations?•
Would demonstrating the freeze step as an intermediate BOM template be beneficial? If so, 
how?•5.7/9/2025
Wednesday, July 09, 2025 1:01 PM
   UXUI Feature Page 547    
Difference between plant inventory and APB
Discussed Phantom BOMs
Phantom material will always be the same no matter which material consumes it at a given location. A 
least costed material number willl represent the same phantom that collects raw meats for all header 
materials produced in a location per location
Same Material Same Step in a given plant for all materials that consume it. So it lives in the plant no 
matter what material we can assign it to that bom. Maybe we need to 
The phantom fo this material at this plant the phantom will be the same material number for all 
formulations
They will be able to look at the entire collection of materials for that material reference the phantom is 
Attaching the formulation
Multiple bom templtes nothingg will corupt at templat data so we attach it to formulations. Least cost material 7/10/25 
Thursday, July 10, 2025 2:09 PM
   UXUI Feature Page 548    
Action Items for Greg (Analyst)
Review the Backlog:
Skim through user stories related to UI and specific projects (EFI 2639 and 2629).•
Identify any user stories with unclear requirments, dependencies, or acceptance criteria.•
Prepare for the Meeting:
Create a list of high -priority user stories to discuss with Rohi and the team. •
Document discrepancies between the Jira board and the Agile plan document.•1.
Schedule Meeting with Rohi:
Arrange a time to review UI stories and discuss findings from the backlog review.•2.
Clarify Requirements During Meeting:
Lead the discussion on identifying missing requirements and dependencies for selected user 
stories.•
Document any ambiguities and take notes on acceptance criteria.•3.
Create Epic Template:
Use the Epic template to document UI -related stories for better organization and clarity. •
Ensure that each story links back to the overall project objective.•4.
Participate in Breakout Sessions:
Help define the agenda for breakout sessions with Rohi.•
Facilitate discussions on UX design requirements and document key decisions made.•5.
Define and Assign Tasks:
Break down user stories into actionable tasks post -breakout session. •
Assign tasks to developers and update Jira with the latest statuses, acceptance criteria, and 
technical details.•6.
Prepare Test Cases:
Collaborate with the testing team to draft test cases based on the UI stories.•7.
Engage in Daily Standups:
Provide updates during daily standups on your tasks and any challenges faced.•8.
Maintain Open Communication:
Regularly communicate with Rohi and the development team to ensure alignment and address 
any issues.•9.
Action Items for Rohi
Schedule UI Sessions:
Coordinate the timing and logistics for the UI sessions with relevant stakeholders.•
Determine specific objectives or outcomes for the sessions based on input from John.•10.
Lead UI Story Review:
Participate in the meeting with Greg to review UI stories and identify gaps.•
Collaborate with Greg to clarify requirements and document any missing information.•11.
Create Breakout Session Agendas:
Work with Greg to outline agendas for breakout sessions focusing on UX design requirements.•12.
Facilitate Discussions:
Actively participate in breakout sessions and ensure all key elements are addressed.•
Provide input on IAM integration and authorization specifics based on ongoing analysis.•13.
Engage with the UX Team:
Reach out to the UX team or other relevant stakeholders for further information or clarification on 
user stories as needed.•14.
Support Daily Standups:
Attend daily standup meetings and contribute by updating the team on progress related to UI 
tasks.•15.
Collaborate with Greg on Documentation:
Help document decisions made during meetings and breakout sessions for transparency.•16.
Contribute to Backlog Review Sessions:
 oin  erry’s daily backlog review sessions to align with the team on priorities and provide updates 
on UI stories.•17.To ensure we’re aligned, I’d like to schedule some time for us to go through the backlog together. We 
can identify any missing requirements or discrepancies between the Jira board and our Agile plan 
document. It would be great to discuss high -priority user stories and clarify acceptance criteria before 
we meet with John.
Here’s a structured template for your UI in Loop, focusing specifically on the various aspects you’ve 
outlined. This template can help streamline the development and ensure clarity in your Agile approach.
Epic: BOM Assembly UI Template in Loop
Story ID Title Description Acceptance 
CriteriaTechnical Details Points
US001 User Login As a user, I want to 
log in to the 
application so that I 
can access my data.-User can enter 
username and 
password.
-User receives 
feedback on 
incorrect 
credentials.
-User is 
redirected to the 
dashboard upon 
successful login.Ensure secure authentication 
and session management. 
Use OAuth for secure login.3
US002 Profile 
UpdateAs a user, I want to 
update my profile so 
that my information 
is current.-User can update 
their name, 
email, and profile 
picture.
-Changes are 
saved and 
reflected 
immediately.
-User receives 
confirmation of 
successful 
update.Implement front -end 
validation for input fields. 
Backend should handle the 
update logic and data 
persistence in the database.5
US003 Password 
RecoveryAs a user, I want to 
recover my 
password so that I 
can regain access.-User can 
request a 
password reset 
link.
-User receives 
an email with the 
reset link.
-User can set a 
new password 
using the link.Integrate with email service 
for sending password reset 
links. Ensure links expire after 
a set duration for security.4
US004 Email 
Notificatio
n SettingsAs a user, I want to 
manage my email 
notifications so that I 
can reduce spam.-User can enable 
or disable email 
notifications.
-User can select 
specific types of 
notifications to 
receive.
-Changes are 
saved and 
reflected in the 
user's settings.Design a user -friendly 
interface for settings. 
Backend should persist user 
preferences in the database.3
Agile Plan for BOM Assembly UI
Epic Story
BOM Assembly UI 
(63%)Assembly business requirements and UX design sessions
BOM Assembly UI 
(63%)Workflows for BOM template, BOM type, BOM version, and dependent/related 
searches
BOM Assembly UI 
(63%)Approved UI mocks demonstrating all required functionality
BOM Assembly UI 
(63%)Feature -complete API endpoint implementations supporting UI (revisions 
expected)
BOM Assembly UI 
(63%)Dashboard business requirements
BOM Assembly UI 
(63%)Draft BOM Template Editing UI
BOM Assembly UI 
(63%)Draft BOM Version Editing UI
BOM Assembly UI 
(63%)User Authorization (Design, Specification, and Implementation)
BOM Assembly UI 
(63%)IAM Interface Design
BOM Assembly UI 
(63%)IAM Integration
BOM Assembly UI 
(63%)Navigation Integration
BOM Assembly UI 
(63%)Client Log Collection
UI Rough Drafts Backlog in Jira
Issue ID Description
EFI-2639 UI Rough Drafts for BOM Assembly
PHASE2 Attach UI Rough Drafts
Link issue
ALM Test Coverage
New Action:
As a BOM business stakeholder or BOM UI developer, I have a document presenting a clear vision for 
the functionality surfaced in the BOM Assembly UI, so that I have a tangible artifact demonstrating the 
application goals and can participate in the approval and development of the UI.
Acceptance Criteria
Application UI wireframes/mocks and workflow document, with approval by:
UI developer for feasibility•
Mid-tier developer for feasibility•
UX designer for usability and application standards•
Business Analyst and Business for functional requirements••
Technical Details
The application UI vision has a critical relationship to the core application data schema, each informing 
the other; both should be drafted concurrently.
Linked Issues
Child of: EFI-2610 •
Issue Type: Epic •
Priority: Medium •
Additional Details
Field Value
Assignee Unassigned
Reporter Koshy, Mohit Jerry
Development
Labels None
Organizational Pillar None
Product BOM Portal
Product Owner None
Project ID PR102497
Hours Estimate NoneStory 
IDTitle Description Acceptance Criteria Technical Details Points
US001 BOM UI 
Requirem
ents & 
DesignAs a business 
stakeholder or 
developer, I need a 
detailed document 
outlining BOM 
Assembly UI 
requirements and 
design vision.-UI 
wireframes/mockups 
and workflow 
documentation 
approved by UI 
developer, mid -tier 
developer, UX 
designer, and Business 
Analyst.Critical alignment with 
core application data 
schema; wireframes and 
workflow 
documentation should 
be drafted concurrently 
with data schema 
specifications.6
US002 BOM 
Template 
WorkflowAs a user, I want 
workflows for BOM 
template creation to 
ensure easy assembly 
and management of 
BOMs.-User can select BOM 
template type, 
version, and search 
dependencies
-Workflow allows 
creating, editing, and 
saving BOM templates 
with all required fields 
and validations.Feature -complete API 
endpoints for BOM 
template workflows 
must support UI 
functions; any revisions 
to endpoints are 
identified and 
integrated.8
US003 BOM 
Version 
WorkflowAs a user, I want 
versioning 
capabilities for BOM 
templates to manage 
and update BOMs 
over time.-User can create new 
versions, view 
previous versions, and 
update BOMs without 
affecting older 
versions
-Version history is 
accessible from the UI.API support for 
versioning; database 
schema must support 
multiple versions for 
each BOM entry, 
ensuring seamless 
integration with the 
BOM Assembly UI.8
US004 User 
Authorizat
ionAs a user, I want 
controlled access to 
the BOM Assembly 
UI to ensure secure 
and role -based 
access to 
information.-User roles can be 
assigned to control 
access to BOM 
functions
-Only authorized 
users can edit, create, 
or delete BOM 
templates
-IAM integration 
confirmed functional.IAM (Identity and Access 
Management) interface 
design and integration; 
secure navigation 
components supporting 
role-based access.5
US005 Dashboar
d UIAs a user, I want a 
dashboard that 
provides an overview 
of BOM templates, 
recent activities, and 
template status 
updates.-Dashboard displays 
recent BOM 
templates, statuses, 
and relevant metrics
-User can access a 
summary view of all 
BOM activities in the 
UI.Dashboard must 
integrate with BOM 
database and provide 
real-time data display 
functionality; approval 
from UX designer for 
dashboard usability.6
US006 BOM 
Template 
Editing UIAs a user, I want an 
interface to edit 
existing BOM 
templates to 
maintain accurate 
data and manage 
changes.-Editable fields 
include name, version, 
template type, and 
dependencies
-User receives 
confirmation of 
changes saved 
successfully
-Version control 
maintains change 
history.UI components must 
support inline editing 
with validation checks 
for required fields; 
integration with backend 
for version tracking and 
saving functionality.7
US007 Navigation 
Integratio
nAs a user, I want 
clear navigation 
within the BOM 
Assembly UI to 
streamline access to 
various 
functionalities.-Consistent 
navigation bar linking 
BOM templates, 
version management, 
and dashboard
-Navigation style 
aligned with 
application standards.Develop navigation bar 
with links to all BOM 
Assembly UI functions; 
requires UX approval for 
usability and consistency 
with other application 
components.4
US008 Client Log 
CollectionAs a developer, I 
want to log client -
side activities within 
the BOM Assembly 
UI for debugging and 
performance 
monitoring.-Logs capture user 
actions, error events, 
and response times
-Log collection meets 
data security and 
privacy standards.Client logs sent to 
backend for storage and 
analysis; ensure secure 
handling of log data to 
comply with data 
protection guidelines.5214 days 
150 story points for cushion on phase 2 scope for entire 3 month project. 
Jarret wants to see an epic that shows clearly what 
54 dev points for UI 20 BA points
Discussed adding an admin section and more screens How many screens? What aspec
Bomforge formulation replica api to use bomforge and plug in okta into that proof of concept
Update to use new URL going forward more stories in 
CRUD
Create Read Update Delete
We arent sure what else we need to accomadate
To be complete with story points by Thursday.
Story ID Title Description Acceptance 
CriteriaTechnical Details
Business 
Require
ments 
and UX 
Design 
for BOM 
Portal 
and 
Dashboa
rdaThis task involves 
gathering requirements 
for both the BOM Portal 
and dashboard to 
define user needs, key 
metrics, and high -level 
goals.
As an analyst , I 
will lead sessions 
with business 
stakeholders to 
gather and 
document 
requirements, 
focusing on the 
objectives of each 
component and 
aligning them 
with project 
goals.•
As a UX designer , 
I will create initial 
design concepts 
based on the 
analyst’s 
requirements, 
ensuring user 
workflows and 
functionality align 
with user 
experience.•
As a developer , I 
will review 
requirements and 
design concepts 
to assess 
technical 
feasibility, 
offering feedback•As an analyst , I 
will document all 
business 
requirements, 
including user 
expectations in 
an organized 
Business 
Requirements 
Document (BRD) 
and present it to 
stakeholders for 
review and 
approval.•
As a UX 
designer , I will 
produce 
wireframes and 
mockups based 
on the 
requirements, 
ensuring they 
meet 
stakeholder 
expectations.•
As a developer , I 
will evaluate 
requirements 
and design 
documents for 
technical 
feasibility, 
identifying any 
constraints or 
dependencies, 
and provide 
feedback to the 
analyst and UX 
designer.•Requirements Gathering 
Process :•
Stakeholder Analysis : 
Identify primary 
stakeholders for the BOM 
Portal and dashboard. 
Schedule meetings with 
end-users, business 
owners, and technical 
teams.•
Requirements Elicitation : 
Use interviews, surveys, 
and workshops to gather 
functional and non -
functional requirements.•
Requirements 
Documentation :
BRD : Create a BRD 
with user stories, 
functional 
requirements and 
non-functional 
requirements•
Validation : Review 
with stakeholders to 
ensure alignment 
with business needs.•
UX Design Process :
Work with UX 
team to 
develop 
wireframes for 
layout and 
navigation•
Create 
detailed 
mockups with 
UI elements, 
navigation, 
and 
interactions. 
Conduct 
usability 
testing•
Final 
Approval : 
Present 
mockups to 
stakeholders 
and finalize 
the design 
document.••
Developer 
Feasibility Review :
Technical 
Assessment : 
Evaluate 
requirements 
and mockups 
for data ••8Phase 2
Wednesday, October 30, 2024 11:43 AM
   UXUI Feature Page 549    
Labels None
Organizational Pillar None
Product BOM Portal
Product Owner None
Project ID PR102497
Hours Estimate None
ALM Req ID None
Incident Number None
Category Development
Start Date Jun 12, 2024
Organizational L2 Pillar Enabling Functions IT
Organizational L3 Pillar ENAB -IT Product Costing
Tyson Team IT Financial Controlling & Costing
Story Points 6
Components PRJ -BOM Master Formulation
Sprint
Feel free to modify any sections as per your project requirements or to add any additional details that 
may be necessary for your workflow. This template provides a comprehensive overview of user stories, 
acceptance criteria, and technical details, ensuring clear communication among all stakeholders 
involved in the project.document.
Developer 
Feasibility Review :
Technical 
Assessment : 
Evaluate 
requirements 
and mockups 
for data 
sources, API 
needs, and 
architectural 
impacts.•
Resource 
Estimation : 
Estimate time 
and resources, 
considering 
dependencies.•
Feedback 
Loop : Provide 
feedback on 
technical 
constraints to 
the analyst 
and designer, 
suggesting 
alternative 
approaches if 
needed.••
Workflo
ws for 
BOM 
Templat
e, Type, 
Version, 
and 
Related 
SearchesDefine and document 
workflows for BOM 
components, including 
templates, types, 
versions, and related 
searches, to ensure that 
all user interactions and 
dependencies within 
the BOM Portal are 
clearly outlined and 
standardized.
As an analyst , I 
will engage with 
stakeholders to 
map and 
document each 
workflow for 
BOM components•
As a UX designer , 
I will use 
diagramming 
tools to create 
visual 
representations 
of the workflows 
that are easy to 
navigate for end 
users.•
As a developer , I 
will review these 
workflows to 
identify any 
technical 
dependencies, 
limitations, or 
improvements 
that could affect 
the 
implementation 
within the BOM 
Portal.•As an analyst , I 
will create 
detailed, 
documented 
workflows for 
each BOM 
component 
(templates, 
types, versions, 
and related 
searches). Then, I 
will conduct a 
review session 
with 
stakeholders to 
validate each 
workflow, 
ensuring they 
align with 
business goals 
and user 
requirements.•
As a UX 
designer , I will 
produce visual 
diagrams for 
each workflow 
using , ensuring 
they are clear, 
user -centered, 
and ready for 
integration.•
As a developer , I 
will assess the 
workflows for 
technical 
feasibility, 
ensuring 
alignment with 
system 
architecture and 
identifying any 
potential 
dependencies or 
constraints.•Workflow Mapping : 
Define each step in the 
workflows for BOM 
components, identifying 
dependencies, decision 
points, and user 
interactions. Collaborate 
with stakeholders to 
ensure all aspects of each 
workflow are accounted 
for and documented.•
Visual Workflow 
Diagrams : create visual 
representations of 
workflows, Each diagram 
should include labels, 
connections, and any 
conditions relevant to the 
workflows.•
Stakeholder Review and 
Validation : Organize a 
session to review 
workflows with 
stakeholders, capturing 
feedback and making 
adjustments as needed•
Documentation Storage : 
Save final workflows and 
diagrams in a shared, 
centralized location 
accessible to team 
members for future 
reference and ongoing 
updates.•4
UI Mocks 
with 
Integrate
d 
Navigati
onDevelop and approve UI 
mockups for the BOM 
Portal that incorporate 
all required 
functionality and 
navigation elements, 
including navigation 
bars, side menus, and 
responsive layouts. The 
goal is to create an 
intuitive, consistent 
user experience that 
allows for easy 
movement between 
sections.
As an analyst , I will 
ensure that the 
requirements for 
navigation and 
functionality are clearly 
defined and align with 
user needs, 
collaborating with the 
UX designer to refine 
these requirements.
As a UX designer , I will 
create detailed, 
responsive mockups for 
each page in the BOM 
Portal, incorporating 
cohesive navigation 
elements for smooth 
user interactions.
As a developer , I will 
review the mockups for 
technical feasibility, 
ensuring that the 
navigation components 
align with system 
architecture and are 
ready for 
implementation.As an analyst , I 
will validate that 
the mockups 
meet all 
documented 
user 
requirements, 
ensuring that all 
navigation 
elements 
facilitate ease of 
use and 
accessibility.•
As a UX 
designer , I will 
produce UI 
mockups that 
cover all 
functionalities, 
incorporating 
navigation 
components 
such as side 
menus, 
navigation bars, 
and responsive 
layouts. I will 
conduct 
stakeholder 
review sessions 
to confirm that 
all UI elements 
align with 
requirements 
and usability 
expectations.•
As a developer , I 
will evaluate the 
mockups to 
confirm that the 
navigation 
design aligns 
with technical 
specifications, 
identifying any 
potential 
challenges or 
adjustments 
needed for 
integration.•Mockup Development : •
Wireframes : Begin with 
wireframes to define 
layout, functionality, and 
information hierarchy. 
Ensure that navigation 
elements, such as side 
menus and navigation 
bars, are present from the 
initial designs.•
Responsive Mockups : 
build interactive 
prototypes if possible, 
allowing stakeholders to 
navigate through the 
portal’s sections.•
Navigation System 
Design :
Cohesive Navigation 
Structure : Design a 
unified navigation 
system that aligns 
with user workflows 
and simplifies 
movement across 
the BOM Portal. 
ensure that users 
can easily access 
frequently used 
sections.•
User Flow Mapping : 
Map out user flows 
to capture key 
interactions and 
verify that the 
navigation design 
supports intuitive 
movement between 
sections.••
Stakeholder Review and 
Feedback :
Feedback Session : 
Organize 
stakeholder review 
sessions, using 
interactive 
prototypes to 
demonstrate 
navigational flows 
and gather feedback 
on layout, design, 
and usability. 
Incorporate 
feedback from these 
sessions into final 
mockups.•
Approval : Secure 
final approval from 
stakeholders on the 
mockups, confirming 
that all required 
functionalities and 
navigation 
components are in 
place.••
Documentation :
Design 
Specifications : 
Document all 
navigation elements, 
their positioning, 
interactions, and ••5
   UXUI Feature Page 550    
interactions, and 
transitions, so that 
developers have a 
clear guide for 
implementation.
Storage and 
Accessibility : Save 
all mockups, 
wireframes, and 
design notes in a 
centralized 
repository for team 
reference and future 
updates.•
Draft 
BOM 
Version 
Editing 
UICreate an interface 
within the BOM Portal 
that allows users to edit 
version -specific 
attributes of BOM 
entries. This editing UI 
should be user -friendly, 
enabling users to view, 
modify, and save 
changes efficiently, 
while ensuring data 
accuracy and 
integration with the 
existing portal 
structure.
As an analyst , I 
will define the 
attributes that 
are editable for 
each BOM version 
and ensure they 
align with 
business 
requirements.•
As a UX designer , 
I will create 
mockups for the 
BOM Version 
Editing UI that 
prioritize ease of 
use and error 
prevention, 
incorporating 
feedback from 
stakeholders.•
As a developer , I 
will implement 
the interface in 
Blazor, ensuring 
integration with 
the BOM Portal 
and providing 
form validation to 
maintain data 
integrity.•As an analyst , I 
will document 
and validate the 
list of version -
specific 
attributes that 
require editing 
capabilities, 
ensuring these 
requirements are 
aligned with user 
needs and 
business 
objectives.•
As a UX 
designer , I will 
create and 
review mockups 
of the editing UI 
with 
stakeholders, 
focusing on a 
user -friendly 
layout that 
includes error 
prevention and 
validation 
options.•
As a developer , I 
will build the UI 
in Blazor, 
integrating form 
validation to 
enforce data 
accuracy and 
adding a preview 
feature to allow 
users to review 
changes before 
saving.•UI Mockup Development : •
Low-Fidelity Wireframes : 
Start with low -fidelity 
wireframes to establish 
the basic layout and 
placement of editable 
fields and navigation 
elements within the 
editing UI.•
High -Fidelity Mockups : 
Create detailed, 
interactive mockups that 
showcase the full editing 
process, including 
navigation, form fields, 
and validation options•
Form Validation and 
Preview Feature :
Form Validation : 
Implement 
validation rules to 
ensure data 
accuracy, including 
required fields, 
acceptable value 
ranges, and any 
conditional 
dependencies 
between fields.•
Preview 
Functionality : 
Develop a preview 
option that allows 
users to view their 
changes before 
committing them. 
This preview should 
display changes 
clearly, indicating 
modifications to 
ensure users 
understand the 
impact before 
saving.••
Blazor Integration :
Blazor 
Development : Build 
the editing UI using 
Blazor, ensuring that 
it integrates into the 
existing BOM Portal 
structure. Ensure 
compatibility with 
front -end 
components and 
interactions.•
Data Handling and 
Save Logic : Develop 
backend logic to 
handle data changes 
securely, validating 
and storing updates 
in the BOM Portal 
database. Include 
error handling to 
manage failed save 
attempts.••
Stakeholder Review and 
Approval :
Feedback Session : 
Conduct a review 
session with 
stakeholders to 
present the 
interactive mockups, 
gathering feedback 
on usability, layout, 
and functionality.•
Approval and Final 
Adjustments : 
Incorporate 
stakeholder 
feedback and 
finalize the UI 
design, ensuring it 
aligns with the 
defined 
requirements for 
editing BOM version 
attributes.••
.15
Feature -
Complet
e API 
Endpoint 
Impleme
ntations 
Supporti
ng UIDevelop and implement 
API endpoints that fully 
support the BOM 
Portal’s UI functionality, 
handling all necessary 
data processing and 
interactions to ensure 
seamless front -end 
integration.
As an analyst , I 
will document the 
data 
requirements for 
each UI 
component to 
ensure the API 
endpoints meet 
the business and 
user needs.•
As a developer , I 
will implement 
and test each API 
endpoint, 
ensuring that 
data is processed, 
integrating 
seamlessly with 
the front -end UI.•
As a QA tester , I 
will validate each 
API endpoint to 
confirm it 
functions as 
expected and 
meets data 
processing 
requirements 
under various 
conditions.•As an analyst , I 
will provide 
detailed 
documentation 
of the data 
requirements for 
each API 
endpoint, 
including input 
parameters, 
expected 
outputs, and 
error handling 
needs.•
As a developer , I 
will create and 
integrate API 
endpoints that 
handle all 
necessary data 
processing for 
the BOM UI, 
ensuring that 
they are 
optimized for 
performance.•
As a QA tester , I 
will conduct 
thorough testing 
of each API 
endpoint, 
verifying its 
functionality, 
data accuracy, 
and performance•API Development : •
Endpoint Design : Design 
endpoints to support all 
necessary BOM UI 
functions•
Data Processing Logic : 
Implement logic within 
each endpoint to handle 
required data 
transformations, 
validations, and 
processing.•
Integration with Front -
End UI :
Data Flow 
Coordination : 
Collaborate with 
front -end 
developers to 
establish a clear 
data flow between 
the UI and API 
endpoints, defining 
input and output 
structures.•
Error Handling : 
Develop 
comprehensive 
error -handling 
mechanisms, 
including 
informative error 
messages for end -
users and logging for 
debugging purposes.••
Testing and Validation :
Unit and Integration 
Testing : Conduct 
unit tests on each 
endpoint to ensure 
individual 
functionality, ••5
   UXUI Feature Page 551    
functionality, 
followed by 
integration tests to 
confirm correct 
operation when 
connected to the 
BOM UI.
Performance and 
Load Testing : Test 
the API under 
various loads to 
ensure stability, 
measuring response 
times and scalability 
to maintain optimal 
performance.•
Documentation :
API Documentation : 
Document each 
endpoint in detail, 
covering 
parameters, 
response formats, 
authentication 
needs, and potential 
error codes. Store 
this documentation 
in a centralized 
location for easy 
access by the 
development and 
QA teams.••
User 
Authoriz
ation 
and IAM 
Integrati
onimplement a user 
authorization and 
Identity and Access 
Management (IAM) 
system for the BOM 
Portal. This feature will 
include defining user 
roles and permissions, 
creating a secure IAM 
management interface 
within the BOM Portal's 
admin panel for 
configuring user access, 
and leveraging Okta for 
authentication through 
ARS. The objective is to 
create a system where 
administrators can 
manage user roles and 
permissions directly 
from the portal, 
ensuring access is 
aligned with user roles 
and security policies.As an analyst, I 
understand the 
importance of 
managing user 
roles and 
permissions 
through a secure 
and intuitive IAM 
system in the 
BOM Portal. As a 
developer, I will 
build and group 
user roles 
managed through 
the admin panel 
of the BOM Portal, 
ensuring seamless 
integration with 
the existing ARS 
Okta 
authentication. As 
a QA tester, I will 
test the 
authorization 
flows and access 
restrictions to 
confirm their 
security and 
functionality.As a developer, I will 
configure the BOM Portal's 
admin panel to enable 
management of user roles 
and permissions and 
integrate it with ARS for 
Okta authentication. As a 
tester, I will perform tests 
on the user access security 
managed through the BOM 
Portal to ensure users can 
only access areas 
appropriate to their roles.8
EFI-302
8Formulat
ion 
Event/St
atus UIAllow BOM Portal users 
to see formulation 
status and event history 
in a category -
searchable UI.-Formulation 
statuses should be 
observable while 
viewing any BOM 
derived from it.-Validation errors should 
be logged to the main BOM 
Portal MySQL database.6
EFI-263
9UI Rough 
DraftsDevelop a document 
presenting a clear vision 
for the functionality 
surfaced in the BOM 
Assembly UI.-Application UI 
wireframes/mocks 
and workflow 
document are 
approved by UI 
developer, mid -
tier developer, UX 
designer, and 
Business Analyst.-The UI vision has a critical 
relationship with the core 
application data schema, 
and both should be drafted 
concurrently.6
EFI-310
8Okta 
Sign-In 
Integrati
on in 
Blazor UIEnable BOM Portal 
users to sign in through 
Okta for secure access 
to sensitive 
information.-Users can sign in 
via Okta and 
access new UIs, 
including 
Formulation 
Viewer.-Redirect users to Okta -
hosted sign -in page, handle 
redirection, obtain and 
store access token, and 
manage token refresh and 
expiry.3
   UXUI Feature Page 552    
EFI-3107 1.
2
PHASE2 -Okta Configuration for BOM Portal
Link issues, web pages, and more
In Progress
Actions
Description
As an admin, I need to configure Okta for BOM Portal so that users can authenticate and authorize access 
to new UIs like Formulation Viewer.
Acceptance Criteria
Ensure the following is accomplished for DEV, QA, PREP, PROD environments: 
Custom Authentication Server set up for BOM Portal•
Okta application is configured correctly for BOM Portal.•
Appropriate scopes and claims are set up in Okta.•
Okta groups and roles match BOM Portal permissions.•
Documentation for Okta configuration is created and shared with the team•
Technical Details
OKTA ARCHITECT: Paco Cisneros
Lower Okta Access Environments:
https://login -dev.tyson.com/enduser/settings
https://login -qa.tyson.com/enduser/settings
Set up Okta Custom Authentication Server for BOM Portal. •
Set up Okta application and configure appropriate settings for BOM Portal.•
Ensure necessary scopes and claims are included in the Okta configuration.•
Create and manage Okta groups and roles that correspond to BOM Portal permissions.•
Attachments
1
Add Attachment
Open image -20240906 -181510.png
image -20240906 -181510.png
06 Sep 2024, 01:15 PM
EFI-2635 1.
1
PHASE2 -BOM Template Schema Spec ( Priority Day 1 )
Link issues, web pages, and more
New
Actions
Description
As a BOM project information developer, I have a clear visual specification for the BOM Template 
internal and external relationships and constraints, so that I can implement and use the BOM 
Template data tier with ease.Backlog 11/13
Wednesday, November 13, 2024 12:18 PM
   UXUI Feature Page 553    
Template data tier with ease.
Acceptance Criteria
BOM Template ERD is approved by business analyst and data designer
Technical Details
Define a concrete ERD for the BOM Template entities, based on the completed functional 
requirements and data relationship documents. It must be well -normalized and must enforce all 
reasonable constraints to avoid repeated higher -level validations and consistency tests.
EFI-2636 1.
1
PHASE2 -BOM Version Schema Spec ( Priority Day 1 )
Link issues, web pages, and more
New
Actions
Description
As a BOM project information developer, I have a clear visual specification for the BOM Version 
internal and external relationships and constraints, so that I can implement and use the BOM Version 
data tier with ease.
Acceptance Criteria
BOM Version ERD is approved by business analyst and data designer
Technical Details
Define a concrete ERD for the BOM Version entities, based on the completed functional requirements 
and data relationship documents. It must be well -normalized and must enforce all reasonable 
constraints to avoid repeated higher -level validations and consistency tests.
EFI-2793 1.
1
PHASE2 -Structured SysLog: Splunk Dashboard
Link issues, web pages, and more
New
Actions
Description
Develop a baseline Splunk dashboard that categorizes external and defect errors, summarizes endpoint 
request quantity and response times, displays application restarts, and counts exception types, and provide 
short team Splunk training and demo.
Acceptance Criteria
defects and integrated / external system failures are clearly distinguished and surfaced in a published 
enterprise log dashboard•
validation errors are visible with a unique Id linking to object that failed validation•
missing configurations are visible including which deployment and setting is missing•
application restarts are visible•
average API response times by endpoint are visible•
uncategorized logs are observed in order to have a plan of action to address in a more meaningful manner•
team members demonstrate basic Splunk query familiarity•
Technical Details
Add parent
   UXUI Feature Page 554    
Add parent
EFI-3026 1.
1
PHASE2 -Validation User Logs
Link issues, web pages, and more
New
Actions
Description
As a BOM Portal user, I can understand the concise/non -technical validation summary, so that I am 
not frustrated by resulting rejections during human -initiated actions such as BOM creation.
Acceptance Criteria
Validation summary has the following qualities:
easily understandable by target audience•
distinguishes problems requiring external action, internal business action, and internal defect 
resolution•
provides sufficient information to initiate resolution•
captures failures for new formulations (with no replica present yet)•
differentiates violation of PDM validation vs. BOM -extended validations •
Technical Details
The validation error result pattern must include not only data that is systematically consumable, but 
also information that is easily transformed to a human -presentable response. This data is collected, 
most likely in the database store to represent relation to formulations and materials.
EFI-3028 1.
1
PHASE2 -Formulation Event/Status UI
Link issues, web pages, and more
New
Actions
Description
As a BOM Portal user, I can see formulation status and event history in a category -searchable UI, so 
that I can understand changes, resolve business effects from poor statuses, and escalate if necessary.
Acceptance Criteria
Formulation Viewer is enhanced to provide a unified view of all formulation events
Supports viewing formulation without resolving expiry•
Permits search by last updated date•
Permits search by last -known inconsistent •
Updates succeeded including version•
Updates failed due to validation•
Updates failed due to external system failures•
Updates failed due to defects•
Update entries include cause of update•
Displays failures for new formulations (with no replica present yet)•
Late -discovered Inconsistencies, e.g. from periodic or demand scans•
Dependent BOM navigation links•
   UXUI Feature Page 555    
Dependent BOM navigation links•
Technical Details
When validation errors arise, log to persistence that can be summarized or searched in a BOM Portal 
UI. This is probably captured to the main BOM Portal MySQL database. It will depend on a UI 
implementation; because this is a formulation -centric issue, the formulation -viewer may be the 
appropriate hub to present this information. A formulation with a current SpecChange error status 
should be observable while viewing the formulation (or any BOM derived from it in the future).
EFI-3027 1.
1
PHASE2 -Formulation Event Audit
Link issues, web pages, and more
New
Actions
Description
As a BOM Portal maintainer, I can see audit history of all successful and failed BOM Portal 
formulation update events, so that I can trace the origin of current data and avoid production risks.
SaveCancel
Acceptance Criteria
Formulation updates are entirely contained within a logged failure check•
The log schema supports records of late -discovered inconsistencies •
Technical Details
Formulation updates can fail for reasons other than validation failures, such as integrated system 
failures and software defects. All failures, whether observed or discovered later by dependent 
processes, must be captured for presentation in a unified report. Changes to formulations and 
affected BOMs are recorded in an audit log in a manner than can be presented in a unified report 
with Validation User Logs and other formulation events.
Add parent
EFI-2639 1.
1
PHASE2 -UI Rough Drafts
Link issues, web pages, and more
New
Actions
Description
As a BOM business stakeholder or BOM UI developer, I have a document presenting clear vision for 
the functionality surfaced in the BOM Assembly UI, so that I have a tangible artifact demonstrating 
the application goals and can participate in the approval and development the UI
Acceptance Criteria
Application UI wireframes/mocks and workflow document, with approval by:
   UXUI Feature Page 556    
Application UI wireframes/mocks and workflow document, with approval by:
UI developer for feasibility•
Mid-tier developer for feasability•
UX designer for usability and application standards•
Business Analyst and Business for functional requirements•
Technical Details
The application UI vision has a critical relationship to the core application data schema, each 
informing the other; both should be drafted in concurrently.
EFI-3029 1.
1
PHASE2 -Inconsistent Formulation Summary
Link issues, web pages, and more
New
Actions
Description
As a Cost Accounting member, I can view formulations and related BOMs that are not current, so that 
I can avoid production risks.
Acceptance Criteria
All rejected updates have human -readable causes identified •
Includes periodic reconciliation information•
Includes eventual consistency digest comparisons or comparable evaluations•
Technical Details
This should be summarized in the formulation status report; however, it will likely also include special 
knowledge provided by the eventual consistency implementation and a periodic formulation 
reconcilation process.
EFI-2641 1.
1
PHASE2 -Schema DevOps
Link issues, web pages, and more
New
Actions
Description
As a BOM Portal engineer, I have an automated system that enforces code and database system 
alignment and standardizes deployment, so that I can focus on improvements rather than manual 
system maintenance
Acceptance Criteria
Defined Data Domain divisions, if any (e.g. assembly/disassembly or 
formulation/bomtemplate/bomversion)•
Estimated DBA deployment workflow, including reconciliation to intended schema, possibly 
authorized subset of developers for schema work•
Support for DB/mid -tier static type checking •
Technical Details
State the project standard approved schema and ERD development workflow, accounting for; 
DB/ORM static type checking, expected DBA roles, aligned version promotion, CI/CD pipeline roles, 
   UXUI Feature Page 557    
DB/ORM static type checking, expected DBA roles, aligned version promotion, CI/CD pipeline roles, 
version rollback, expectation for domain model splits, etc. Develop any missing devop steps; refer to 
existing DomainModel code.
EFI-3030 1.
1
PHASE2 -Microversion Replacement
Link issues, web pages, and more
New
Actions
Description
As a BOM business data owner, I have clear and concise control over what fields constitute a BOM -
relevant formulation change, so that I can make BOM workflow decisions based on my business 
needs.
Acceptance Criteria
Formulation updates that have no effect on BOMs can be distinguished to avoid requiring BOM 
Publishing of those updates•
Technical Details
Implement a formulation property digest or other property -comparison -based strategy that identifies 
whether formulation changes are relevant to BOM outcomes, and permits tracking the drift of 
dependent BOM Versions relative to those changes.
EFI-3033 1.
1
PHASE2 -Formulation Version Check
Link issues, web pages, and more
New
Actions
Description
As a consumer of PDM OfficialProduct, I can uniquely identify a material formulation update with 
confidence by a concise value, so that I may quickly verify data for a specific material.
Acceptance Criteria
A summary technique is implemented with sufficient confidence to rapidly verify that a single 
formulation is current•
Optionally provides a targeted consistency guarantee, e.g. via a digest.•
Technical Details
Today, BOM Portal identifies SpecChanges by version ID. Because this value is manually adjusted, 
human errors can result in multiple formulation variations with a single version; and ignoring the 
latest variation. We must have a concise value that is guaranteed to uniquely identify the formulation 
values that BOM Portal consumes; less optimially this may identify formulation changes that are 
irrelevant to BOM Portal.
EFI-3034 1.
1
PHASE2 -Formulation Reconciliation
Link issues, web pages, and more
   UXUI Feature Page 558    
New
Actions
Description
As a BOM business data owner, I have a backup system to verify every formulation is consistent, so 
that I have the confidence to transition away from legacy recipe -based recon to single -instance 
formulations.
Acceptance Criteria
Inconsistent formulations are periodically discovered, logged, and autocorrected•
The periodic process runs with frequency sufficient to offset any reliability shortcoming of the 
eventual consistency strategy and human error•
Technical Details
These results must be aggregated to formulation event UI.
EFI-2642 1.
1
PHASE2 -BOM Template Implementation
Link issues, web pages, and more
New
Actions
Description
Add a description...
Acceptance Criteria
BOM Template ERD is implemented according to approved functional specifications, including 
constraints•
Technical Details
None
EFI-2643 1.
1
PHASE2 -BOM Version Implementation
Link issues, web pages, and more
New
Actions
Description
Add a description...
Acceptance Criteria
BOM Version ERD is implemented according to approved functional specifications, including 
constraints•
Technical Details
None
EFI-2644 1.
1
PHASE2 -FormulationReplica Constraints
Attach
   UXUI Feature Page 559    
Attach
Link issue
Link web pages and more
ALM Test Coverage
New
Actions
Description
As a BOM data user, I know that copies of formulation data held by BOM Portal are internally 
constrained to validity rules, so that I do not have to check in my code or business workflow for 
corruption or inconsistencies caused by humans or defective processes
Acceptance Criteria
FormulationReplica constraints are implemented as per original approved schema, with any 
discovered adjustments for PDM interface epic•
Verified data rejections meet functional requirements; such as overlapping templates, invalid 
attachments•
Technical Details
Apply FormulationReplica constraints; e.g. a component may not be a member of both packaging and 
input groups.
EFI-2622 1.
2.
EFI-2629 3.
1
PHASE2 -Client Log Collection
Attach
Link issue
Link web pages and more
ALM Test Coverage
New
Actions
Description
Add a description...
Acceptance Criteria
None
Technical Details
None
EFI-2623 1.
1
PHASE2 -User Authorization
Attach
Link issue
Link web pages and more
ALM Test Coverage
New
Actions
Description
   UXUI Feature Page 560    
Description
As a FormulationViewer user, I have controlled access to the FormulationViewer application, so that 
Tyson formulation data is protected.
Acceptance Criteria
Users can be granted access at selected granularity (plant type, plant, BOM type, role, right)•
Access grants come from specified source (ARS, database)•
Support declarative expression of grants at API or service layer•
Technical Details
Define functional requirements
Reduce granularity of per -user access grants •
Reduce/normalize grant axes (plant, bomtype, rights)•
EFI-2624 1.
1
PHASE2 -Navigation Integration
Attach
Link issue
Link web pages and more
ALM Test Coverage
New
Actions
Description
As a BOM Portal developer, I can easily integrate new UI (such as Formulation Viewer) navigation into 
the existing application, so that I can quickly provide users both old and new functionality without a 
heavy legacy code maintenance burden
Acceptance Criteria
Design avoids redeveloping the current unintuitive navigation in a new framework•
Implementation does not rely on same -page implementation of deprecated software •
Design supports eventual navigation refresh•
Business and technical members approve legacy/new navigation strategy for all upcoming Blazor 
work•
First Blazor UI (e.g. Formulation Viewer) is navigable within BOM Portal•
Technical Details
Develop a navigation strategy that supports new BOM Portal Assembly UIs, and can be easily 
navigated to from the main BOM Portal navigation interaction. Also, the existing BOM Portal 
navigation is confusing and makes it difficult to find specific screens and functionality. Navigation 
should be improved and screen should be placed under more inuitive groupings or locations; develop 
a vision for how and when legacy BOM Navigation will be revised, to ensure the approach supports 
the long -term enhancement.
EFI-3109 1.
1
PHASE2 -OKTA JWT Token Handling in API Layer
Attach
Link issue
Link web pages and more
ALM Test Coverage
   UXUI Feature Page 561    
ALM Test Coverage
New
Actions
Description
As a BOM Portal User, my JWT token needs to be observed and validated in the API layer so that my access 
to information can be securely controlled.
Acceptance Criteria
Middleware for JWT token validation is implemented.•
API endpoints are secured and require a valid JWT token.•
JWT token claims are used for access control.•
Documentation for JWT token handling is created and shared with the team.•
Implementation is separated and resusable across multiple microservices•
Declarative identity/claims controls are supported at API endpoints•
Technical Details
Implement middleware to handle JWT token validation.•
Secure API endpoints to require a valid JWT token for access.•
Ensure JWT token includes necessary claims for API access control.
EFI-2621 1.•
2
PHASE2 -IAM Interface Design (OKTA)
Attach
Link issue
Link web pages and more
ALM Test Coverage
New
Actions
Description
As a Tyson software security analyst, I expect that all future development of the BOM Portal will follow a 
straightforward and reliable approach to ensure secure user operations. This means that the user interface 
and backend controls must work together to meet security requirements, so Tyson's data remains 
protected. The security practices should be easy to maintain and ensure that we can consistently monitor 
and address any security concerns during ongoing maintenance.
Acceptance Criteria
None
Technical Details
Develop, document, and integrate a strategy to share user identity and authorizations (e.g. grants, 
groups, rights, roles) between mid and front tiers. Gracefully surface rejections at the client. Provide 
declarative assignment at mid -tier endpoints and/or service methods. Support queries for 
implementing UI authorization cues. A broad review of long -term goals for BOM Portal user security 
rights is an appropriate input to this story.
EFI-3060 1.
2
PHASE2 -Configuration Pattern -Front -End Configuration Retrieval 
API (OKTA)
Attach
Link issue
Link web pages and more
   UXUI Feature Page 562    
ALM Test Coverage
New
Actions
Description
Allow the front -end components to dynamically retrieve configuration settings.
Acceptance Criteria
Develop RESTful or GraphQL APIs to provide configuration data to the front -end.
Implement caching on the client -side to minimize API calls and improve performance.
Ensure security through authentication and authorization mechanisms.
Include logging and monitoring for API usage and performance.
Technical Details
None
EFI-3108 1.
2
PHASE2 -Okta Sign -In Integration in Blazor UI
Attach
Link issue
Link web pages and more
ALM Test Coverage
New
Actions
Description
As a BOM Portal User, I need to sign in through Okta to access new UIs so that my identity can be used to 
control access to sensitive information.
Acceptance Criteria
Users can sign in via Okta and are redirected back to the Blazor UI.•
Okta access token (JWT) is obtained and stored securely.•
User identity is used to control access to new UIs like Formulation Viewer.•
Token Refresh is handled seamlessly•
Logout, Token Expiry, an d Login Rejections are intuitive•
Technical Details
Implement Okta sign -in workflow in Blazor UI. •
Redirect users to Okta -hosted sign -in page and handle redirection back to the application. •
Obtain and store Okta access token (JWT) upon successful authentication.•
Implement token refresh mechanism in the client -side Blazor UI. •
Handle token expiry and re -authentication seamlessly. •
Ensure the user experience is intuitive and handles edge cases like login rejection due to lack of OIDC grant.•
Linked issues
   UXUI Feature Page 563    
Dear Anne and Doug,
I hope this message finds you well.
As part of our efforts to ensure the BOM Portal is designed to best support your work, we are 
reaching out to gather feedback. Insights will be used to identify current pain points and 
potential enhancements that could make the system more efficient and user -friendly. This 
feedback will be pivotal as we collaborate with the UI/UX team to refine the design and 
functionality of the portal.
We have created a short survey covering the following areas and kindly ask that you complete 
this by 11/8:
Current Tasks and Workflows: Understanding your day -to-day use of the BOM Portal
What are the primary tasks you perform on the BOM Portal daily?•
Can you describe any workflows that you find repetitive or time -consuming? •
Are there specific design aspects or user interface elements within the BOM Portal 
that you find particularly helpful or frustrating?•
What tasks do you frequently need to perform outside of the BOM Portal due to its 
limitations?•1.
Key Metrics and Dashboard Insights: Identifying the data and KPIs that matter most
Which metrics or KPIs are the most essential for you to monitor on your dashboard?•
Do you need any specific data points updated in real -time that are currently not? If 
so, which ones?•
Are there any alerts or notifications that could be integrated to improve your 
workflow or help you make quicker decisions?•
How do you currently track these metrics, and what design challenges do you face in 
doing so?•2.
Strategic Goals and Future Enhancements: Exploring potential design improvements
If the BOM Portal were redesigned, what would be the most important new 
capabilities or enhancements to support your role?•
How could the UI/UX design of the BOM Portal better align with your long -term 
strategic goals or productivity objectives?•
What design changes could be made to make the system more intuitive or user -
friendly for you and your team?•3.
Feedback on Hypothetical Features: Capturing ‘nice -to-have’ design ideas
Imagine the BOM Portal as a completely redesigned tool. What tasks would you 
want it to support more effectively in terms of UI/UX?•
Are there any ‘nice -to-have’ features or design elements that would improve your 
experience, even if they aren’t strictly necessary?•
What innovative UI/UX tools or features have you seen in other systems that you 
would like to have in the BOM Portal?•
If you could add one new design element or feature, what would it be and why?•4.
We appreciate your time and feedback, as it will help us collaborate effectively with the UI/UX 
team and ensure the design and functionality meet your needs. If there is anything you wish to 
discuss in more detail, please feel free to reach out to me or Andre Lara.
Thank you!RG -Email Solicitation
Wednesday, November 06, 2024 8:21 AM
   UXUI Feature Page 564    
Thank you!
   UXUI Feature Page 565    
-> Probably need to have secondary sessions with plant maintainers and field users.
1. Overview of Survey Responses The survey conducted aimed to gather detailed insights from key 
stakeholders, including Ann Parker, Geof Schroeder, Doug Wolfe, and Angelica Flores, to pinpoint 
current limitations and potential enhancements for the BOM Portal. Their feedback underscored the 
need for improvements in UI/UX design, functionality, and technical capabilities to create a more 
efficient, user -friendly, and stable system.
2. Key Themes Identified
A. Design -Related Enhancements (UI/UX Improvements)
UI Navigation Challenges : Stakeholders expressed frustration with the excessive number of clicks 
needed for various tasks and frequent page timeouts that disrupt workflow. A clearer and more 
streamlined navigation layout was identified as essential for improving user efficiency.•
Direct Code Management : Users noted the inability to check or uncheck codes directly within 
individual BOMs, necessitating navigation to parent BOMs to make these changes.•
Processing Aid Section : A dedicated section for managing processing aids was suggested, enabling 
manual adjustments without altering the main recipe formulation.•
Visual Elements : While users appreciate the “recipe used by” option showing connected codes, 
the current design is considered inefficient for navigating specific tabs and sections.•
Advanced Disassembly Suggestions : A feature that recommends disassembly codes based on pre -
existing BOMs from other locations would greatly streamline processes.•
B. Functional Enhancements
Mass Operations : The current process for terminating and approving BOMs requires individual 
handling, making it labor -intensive. Stakeholders emphasized the need for mass approval and 
termination functionalities.•
Change Tracking System : A comprehensive change log for monitoring and reviewing modifications 
is lacking, which complicates tracking and troubleshooting.•
Material and Resource Syncing : The existing material and resource syncing functionality has 
ceased working. Restoring and enhancing this feature is critical for data consistency.•
ECM Process Issues : The ECM process is currently unreliable due to database structure problems. 
Enhancing this process will stabilize it, ensuring it can be used effectively without requiring 
manual MRP runs.•
Template -Based BOM Management : A proposed template -based approach would minimize the 
need to create redundant spec copies for multiple BOM versions.•
AOP BOM Management : The ability to maintain a separate AOP (Annual Operating Plan) BOM 
instance that can be converted to a  inance BOM at the fiscal cycle’s end is a desired feature.•
C. Technical System Enhancements
Okta Integration and IAM Features : Stakeholders highlighted the need for Okta integration for 
secure user authentication and role -based access management (IAM) to bolster system security.•
System Integration Considerations : Ensuring that system upgrades align with existing 
integrations, such as SAP and the Engineering Standards Portal, is crucial for seamless data flow 
and functionality.•
Retention of Current Capabilities : Stakeholders stressed that while enhancements are necessary, 
the BOM Portal must retain its current capabilities, including:
Support for multiple BOM types (Finance, Production, Engineering, AOP).•
Customizable structures such as unchecked inventory points and alternate production ••RG -Survey Response Summary
Wednesday, November 13, 2024 2:57 PM
   UXUI Feature Page 566    
Customizable structures such as unchecked inventory points and alternate production 
BOMs.•
Assigning rework materials and moving packaging between steps, including manual 
packaging usage.•
Comprehensive "What -If" BOM functionality for cost analysis. •
Continued support for existing admin functions and current usage and scrap percentage 
calculations.•
3. Key Frustrations and Limitations
Timeouts and Refresh Issues : Frequent session timeouts necessitate page refreshes, which 
disrupts workflow and efficiency.•
Spec Change Propagation : The portal does not effectively propagate specification changes to 
plant inventory points not linked to corporate specs.•
Approval and Termination Workflow : The workflow for approving spec changes in bulk is 
cumbersome, requiring entry into each BOM individually. Terminating BOMs is also labor -
intensive due to the need to disconnect attached codes and remove versions in steps.•
4. Suggested Enhancements and ‘Nice -to-Have’ Features
Processing Aid Management Section : Stakeholders proposed a feature allowing processing aids to 
be adjusted without impacting the core recipe.•
Enhanced Disassembly Functionality : Suggested improvements include the ability to recommend 
disassembly codes based on pre -existing setups.•
Direct Code Management : Implementing direct code management within individual BOMs was 
highlighted as a user -friendly enhancement.•
5. Desired Reports and Real -Time Updates
Alerts for Key Status Changes : Notifications for status changes such as flagged deletions, B4 or Y3 
status updates, and procurement type shifts from E to F were recommended.•
Disconnect Alerts : Real -time updates for BOM -spec disconnects were deemed essential for 
effective monitoring.•
Conclusion The survey responses highlight an imperative for a balanced approach that integrates UI/UX 
design improvements, functional workflow enhancements, and technical system upgrades. By 
addressing these key areas, the BOM Portal will achieve enhanced performance, usability, stability, and 
security while retaining its current core functionalities.
Functional Scope for Enhancements and Stability Improvements
Maintain Support for Multiple BOM Types : The system must continue supporting Finance, 
Production, Engineering, and AOP BOM types.•
Customizable BOM Structures : Ensure continued support for unchecked inventory points, 
alternate production BOMs, and plant inventory points.•
Enhanced Assignments : Retain capabilities for rework materials, alternate materials, and global 
scrap percentages while enabling direct adjustments for processing aids.•
System Integration : Align new enhancements with current integrations such as SAP and the 
Engineering Standards Portal for seamless functionality.•
Security and User Access : Implement Okta integration for enhanced security and IAM for role -
based access.•
Admin and Disassembly Functions : Ensure retention of existing admin capabilities and robust 
disassembly functionality to meet current and future user needs.•
These changes will address user pain points, create operational efficiencies, and ensure the BOM Portal 
remains a vital tool for stakeholders.
   UXUI Feature Page 567    
Revised Meeting Agenda
Title : BOM Portal UI Enhancements Review –First Session
Date : [Insert Date]
Time : [Insert Time]
Attendees :
Business Team :
Ann Parker, Senior Analyst BOM Portal, Corporate Finance•
Geof Schroeder, Senior Manager for BOM Portal, Accounting•
Doug Wolfe, Finance Manager for BOM Portal•
Angelica Flores, Senior Manager, Accounting Costing Services, •
Analyst Team :
Andre Lara, Analyst•
John Tran, Senior Manager, Applications•
Greg Homstad, Application Analyst•
Meeting Objectives :
Review feedback on current UI challenges.•
Align on prioritized UI enhancements and design requirements.•
Address limitations in existing UI components.•
Gather input for designing new UI features.•
Agenda :
Welcome and Introductions (5 minutes)
Welcome attendees and introduce the objective of the meeting.•
Brief attendee introductions with roles and relevance to the UI enhancement project.•
Comprehensive Review of UI Feedback (20 minutes)
Objective : Understand feedback on current UI issues and user needs. •
Details :
Review user feedback and pain points related to UI elements.
Usability and Accessibility : The feedback consistently points to a need for 
better usability, with more intuitive design and easier access to key functions.•
Efficiency : Users are seeking a more efficient interface that reduces clicks and 
streamlines workflows.•
Real -Time Features : Notifications and updates that display in real -time are a 
priority to keep users informed of crucial changes.•
Customization and Flexibility : The UI should offer more customization options, 
such as a dedicated section for specific tasks and flexible form validation.••
Discuss issues such as:
Navigation inefficiencies.•
Inadequate UI for managing specific BOM attributes.•
limitations hinder the efficiency, accuracy, and ease of use for users needing to 
edit and control BOM versions. Addressing these issues would improve user 
productivity, reduce errors, and create a more seamless editing experience 
within the BOM Portal.•••1.1.
Prioritized UI Enhancements Discussion (25 minutes)
Objective : Identify and prioritize key UI improvements. •
Details :
Okta Sign -In and IAM UI Integration : Review UI requirements for user sign -in and role 
management.•
Improved Navigation System : Discuss UI layout changes for smoother user experience. •
Alert System UI : Evaluate the design ••2.
Addressing UI Frustrations and Design Limitations (15 minutes)
Objective : Discuss common UI frustrations and gather input for solutions. •
Details :
Review issues like:
Frequent refreshes and timeouts.•
Navigation to parent BOMs for specific actions.•••3.
Open Discussion on Potential UI Design Changes (10 minutes)
Objective : Collect additional input on new UI design ideas. •
Details :
Gather feedback on:
Improved tracking and event history interfaces.•••4.
Next Steps and Action Items (10 minutes)
Objective : Establish follow -up tasks and set timelines. •
Details :
Assign tasks for UI design drafts and feedback review.•
Schedule the next meeting to review UI mockups and prototypes.•
Set deadlines for feedback from attendees.••5.
Closing Remarks (5 minutes)
Objective : Summarize key points and reinforce the collaborative approach. •
Details :
Recap main UI -focused discussion points. •
Acknowledge participant contributions.•
Confirm contacts for ongoing feedback.••6.
Preparation Materials :
UI Feedback Summary : Insights from recent survey responses. •
Initial UI Requirements Document (URD) . •
UI Mockups and Drafts : Visual aids for review (if available). •Meeting Script for BOM Portal Enhancements Review –First Session
[Greg Homstad begins the meeting]
1. Welcome and Introductions (5 minutes)
“Good [morning/afternoon], everyone. Thank you for joining. I’m Greg Homstad, application analyst for 
this project. Let’s quickly introduce ourselves, starting with [Ann Parker].”
[Each attendee introduces themselves]
“Thank you all. Today, we’ll review survey feedback, discuss enhancement priorities, and gather input 
on initial requirements. By the end, we’ll outline our next steps.”
2. Review of Survey Feedback (10 minutes)
“ irst, a summary of the key feedback:
Mass Operations : Need for efficient mass termination and approval processes. •
UI Navigation : Desire for fewer clicks and streamlined paths. •
Change Tracking : Importance of a comprehensive change log. •
Any clarifications or additional input?”
[Pause for comments]
“Thanks for your insights.”
3. Discussion on Prioritized Enhancements (15 minutes)
“Here’s our proposed priority list:
Okta Integration for secure sign -in. 1.
Mass Termination/Approval tools. 2.
UI Navigation Improvements . 3.
Change Tracking System . 4.
Alert Notifications for key updates. 5.
Material Syncing Restoration . 6.
Do these align with your expectations? Any adjustments needed?”
[Facilitate brief discussion]
4. Initial Requirements Review (10 minutes)
“Here’s an overview of the initial functional requirements:
Okta for authentication and IAM integration. •
Batch processing logic for mass operations. •
Enhanced UI elements and alert systems . •
 eedback or questions?”
[Address responses]
5. Feedback and Open Discussion (15 minutes)
“I’d like to open the floor for any further insights or concerns you may have.”
[Pause for open discussion]
6. Next Steps and Action Items (5 minutes)
“ ext, we’ll:
Review and incorporate your feedback.•
Schedule follow -up meetings for deeper dives. •
Assign action items.•
Expect a summary and follow -up by [date].”
7. Closing (5 minutes)
“Thank you for your time and valuable input. This collaboration is key to our success.  eel free to reach 
out with any additional thoughts. Have a great day!”RG -Agenda First Session
Wednesday, November 13, 2024 2:29 PM
   UXUI Feature Page 568    
Revised Meeting Agenda –Second Session
Title : BOM Portal Enhancements Review –Second Session
Date :
Time :
Attendees :
Business Team :
Ann Parker, Senior Analyst, Corporate Finance•
Geof Schroeder, Senior Manager, Accounting•
Doug Wolfe, Finance Manager•
Angelica Flores, Senior Manager, Accounting•
Analyst Team :
Andre Lara, Analyst•
John Tran, Senior Manager, Applications•
Greg Homstad, Application Analyst•
Technical Team :
[Add Developer Name(s), if applicable]•
[Add QA Tester Name(s), if applicable]•
Meeting Objectives :
Review Phase 2 UI Deliverables •
Finalize technical requirements and detailed workflow diagrams.•
Discuss UI mockup revisions and additional stakeholder feedback.•
Establish next -phase milestones and ownership for development. •
Agenda :
Welcome and Recap (5 minutes)
Welcome attendees and provide a brief recap of the first session’s key points and decisions.•
Reiterate the objectives for this session and expected outcomes.•
Review of Initial Design and Workflow Adjustments (20 minutes)1.
Objective : Validate revisions made based on feedback from the first session.
Details :
Present updated workflow diagrams for BOM templates, types, versions, and searches.•
Showcase UI mockups with incorporated suggestions (e.g., navigation improvements, 
processing aid section).•
Gather feedback on visual and functional alignment with user needs.•1.
Technical Requirements Deep Dive (20 minutes)2.
Objective : Finalize and confirm technical specifications for prioritized features.
Details :
Discuss technical feasibility and resource estimation for mass termination and approval processes.•
Confirm the implementation approach for API endpoints supporting the UI.•
Review integration considerations for Okta authentication and IAM.•
Feedback and Open Discussion on Remaining Enhancements (15 minutes)3.
Objective : Collect additional input on key enhancements not fully addressed in the first session.
Details :
Discuss the dedicated processing aid section.•
Review requirements for the change -tracking system and alert notifications. •RG –Agenda Second Session
Thursday, November 14, 2024 12:15 PM
   UXUI Feature Page 569    
Review requirements for the change -tracking system and alert notifications. •
Address any emerging concerns or technical dependencies.•
Plan for User Acceptance Testing (UAT) Preparation (10 minutes)1.
Objective : Outline the plan for UAT phases and stakeholder involvement.
Details :
Assign roles for test case creation and execution.•
Establish timelines and responsibilities for testing and feedback collection.•
Next Steps and Milestone Planning (10 minutes)4.
Objective : Define immediate action items and align on timelines for the next development phase.
Details :
Assign leads for specific enhancements (e.g., developers for API work, UX for design iterations).•
Set a date for the next review or check -in meeting. •
Confirm deadlines for incorporating stakeholder feedback and updating documentation.•
Closing Remarks and Collaboration Reinforcement (5 minutes)5.
Objective : Summarize the key outcomes of the meeting and emphasize ongoing teamwork.
Details :
Recap the main takeaways and next steps.•
Thank participants for their input and encourage continuous feedback.•
Confirm contact points for follow -up discussions or clarifications. •
Preparation Materials :
Revised workflow diagrams.•
Updated UI mockups and interactive prototypes (if available).•
Technical documentation drafts outlining API and integration plans.•
Notes on the first session's decisions and feedback.•
   UXUI Feature Page 570    
Comprehensive Okta Sign -In and IAM Integration 1.
Description: Integrate Okta authentication and Identity and Access Management (IAM) for secure access 
and role management.
Acceptance Criteria:
Users can securely sign in and access the BOM Portal via Okta.•
Admins can manage user roles and permissions.•
Technical Details:
Integrate Okta sign -in and IAM features into the Blazor UI. •
Feedback Alignment:
Strengthens security and aligns with user needs for enhanced access management.•
User Authorization in BOM Portal Admin2.
Description: Implement an identity and access management system for defining user roles and 
permissions.
Acceptance Criteria:
System follows Tyson security protocols and supports user roles.•
Technical Details:
Integrate roles management into the admin functions of the BOM Portal.•
Feedback Alignment:
Ensures security compliance and strengthens user access control.•
Enhanced Code Documentation and Validation Logging3.
Description: Update code documentation, integrate validation logs, and improve diagnostics for better 
issue tracking and code maintainability.
Acceptance Criteria:
Documentation and validation logs are accessible and complete.•
Technical Details:
Implement a logging system and update code documentation comprehensively.•
Feedback Alignment:
Improves maintainability and addresses the need for clearer diagnostics and issue tracking.•
API Endpoint Development for UI Integration4.
Description: Develop and document API endpoints to support seamless data interactions with the UI.
Acceptance Criteria:
API endpoints align with UI and data processing requirements.•
Technical Details:
Develop RESTful APIs and document them for UI integration.•
Feedback Alignment:
Facilitates smoother data interaction, addressing integration needs.•
UI Mocks and Preliminary Drafts5.
Description: Develop comprehensive UI mockups to present a clear vision for the BOM Assembly UI.
Acceptance Criteria:
UI mockups and workflows are approved by stakeholders.•
Technical Details:
Create detailed wireframes and ensure technical feasibility.•
Feedback Alignment:
Aligns with user expectations for iterative design improvements.•
Improved UI Navigation System6.
Description: Enhance UI navigation for a better user experience and quicker access to essential features.
Acceptance Criteria:
Users can navigate with minimal clicks and a more intuitive flow.•
Technical Details:
Implement navigation improvements that align with user needs and expectations.•
Feedback Alignment:
Enhances overall user experience and aligns with requests for more user -friendly navigation. •
Formulation Event/Status UI7.
Description: Enable users to view and search formulation status and event history in a comprehensive, 
category -searchable UI.
Acceptance Criteria:
The Formulation Viewer displays a unified view of formulation events.•
Users can search by various criteria (e.g., last update date, inconsistency status).•
Technical Details:
Implement a formulation -centric viewer that logs and tracks changes. •
Capture event data in a persistent and searchable format.•
Feedback Alignment:
Improves visibility and tracking, aligning with user needs for accessible and detailed event history.•
Mass Termination Capability for BOMs8.
Description: Implement a system that allows users to perform mass termination of all types of BOMs, 
simplifying the workflow and reducing manual effort.Description
The goal of this project is to enhance the database structure and code base to alleviate issues with system 
instability and to promote a more robust and useable program.
Business Case
Our current BOM Portal instance never met the requirements set forth by project Philadelphia. Since go 
live, we lost our developers, and any support or enhancement was taken over by Infosys. Since BOM 
Portal was an in -house developed program, this transition never fully occurred, and we have not been 
successful.
Our current instance of BOM Portal has stability issues and the database structure lends itself to 
corruption. This is dealt with daily by our support team. Our first step toward correcting BOM Portal is 
the formulation master implementation. Scheduled for September 10, this change will bring in a master 
copy of the product spec. This master copy will be used to update BOM’s within BOM Portal. This will 
make the spec change process more efficient and should help alleviate system issues with spec changes. 
This project will update how BOM’s are treated by BOM Portal. Currently a separate copy of the spec is 
maintained for each BOM instance. This is cumbersome and leads to issues with spec changes and with 
BOM creation (cloning). The new approach is to maintain a “master BOM” at the plant level for each 
production process. Any BOM’s needed for the location would use one of these “master BOM’s” as a 
template whereby attributes would be assigned. This will keep us from bogging the database down with 
needless replication of spec data and should facilitate the following. All of these were requirements for 
the original program within the Philadelphia project.
1. Unchecked Inventory Points –Our current instance will create these; however, the database/code 
structure does not handle them well. The current logic creates a “Recipe Group” in Bom portal, this is 
something that needs to be addressed. Once a spec is unchecked it should no longer create a recipe group, 
but it should still be able to receive spec changes. These are the largest cause of our issues. They are 
necessary as we do not want to create plant specific specs or even multiple specs for a location based on 
the process flow.
2. ECM Process –Our current ECM process is broken because of our database construction. This change 
will allow us to use this functionality. Especially for Production BOM’s. Currently we are not using 
ECMs for production BOM because of constant breaking of BOM’s. This forces MRP to be run off -line 
manually.
3. AOP BOM –Ability to keep a separate BOM instance to use for the annual operating plan and convert 
it to the Finance BOM at the end of the planning season before the next fiscal year.
In attrition to the enhancements given BOM Portal should retain current functionality while enhancing 
performance, stability, useability, upgradability, and security.
BOM Portal needs to retain current functionality. Examples are given below (non -inclusive list).
1. Support of multiple BOM Types. (Finance, Production, Engineering, AOP)
2. Support of multiple process options. (Batch VS Continuous)
3. Ability to customize BOM structure (Unchecked Inventory Points, Alternate Production BOMs, Plant 
Inventory Points)
4. Ability to assign rework materials.
5. Ability to move packaging between steps within a spec.
6. Ability to manually set usage on packaging. (This should be held upon spec refresh)
7. Ability to select item type and units of measure for components.
8. Interface with and receive data from our Engineering Standards Portal.
9. Ability to assign step yields.
10. Ability to select alternate materials.
11. Ability to attach phantom materials.
12. Ability to have both item and global scrap percentages.
13. Ability to assign network and resource to a BOM.
14. Ability to manually assign throughput and crew to a BOM.
15. Ability to use demonstrated data for throughput and crew.
16. Ability to use Engineering Change Management.
17. Ability to terminate a BOM without deleting it in SAP.
18. Ability to show plant instructions; corp instructions; corp usage and standards (Text Tab)
19. Retain current calculations for usage.
20. Ability to create What IF BOM’s for cost analysis.
21. Retain all current Disassembly functions.
22. Retain all Admin functions currently present.
The largest benefit will be a functional and useful BOM Portal system. BOM Portal is the backbone of 
our production and cost process for Tyson. Every product produced at a Poultry or Prepared plant had its 
BOM/Recipe created in BOM Portal and interfaced to SAP. BOM portal ensures consistent calculations 
and consistent delivery of data to SAP. BOM Portal is also the system which houses our Engineered 
Standards and delivers these standards to SAP. BOM Portal, via the not -on-BOM check, is the first line of 
defense against an incorrect material being issued to an order. Without BOM Portal in place, Tyson would 
have to employ 70 or more team members to manually manage BOM’s for each location in SAP. This 
would strip us of another of BOM Portal’s advantages, which is consistency in BOM creation. The largest 
asset brought to us by BOM Portal is adherence to the product specification.
Technical Case
The enhancements to BOM Portal are necessary to prolong its service life, correct outdated interfaces, 
and enhance performance thus alleviating errors.
Our current code is not documented. A recently identified error resulted in 160 -man hours of work by 
experienced contract developers to find the root cause. This is not a sustainable situation. The 
enhancements will have clearly documented architecture and maintainable code written to current 
industry standards.
Currently BOM Portal does not have logging. Implementation of logging will enhance our ability to 
determine the root cause of issues.
Our current interfaces are using outdated non -standard protocols (SingalR). These interfaces have no 
external contracts and cannot be consumed by non -Microsoft systems or user interfaces. Upgrade to
these interfaces is necessary to ensure we are receiving all spec changes and submit to SAP quickly and 
reliably.
Our current Instance of BOM Portal does not use Tyson standard security protocols. This leaves Tyson’s 
data vulnerable which is not acceptable for a SOX controlled system.
Currently Tyson has no on staff experts in BOM Portal from a development standpoint. Normalizing the 
code along with proper documentation will aid in training Tyson staff developers to support BOM Portal.Requirements
Tuesday, November 12, 2024 9:27 AM
   UXUI Feature Page 571    
Improves visibility and tracking, aligning with user needs for accessible and detailed event history.•
Mass Termination Capability for BOMs8.
Description: Implement a system that allows users to perform mass termination of all types of BOMs, 
simplifying the workflow and reducing manual effort.
Acceptance Criteria:
Users can select and terminate multiple BOMs simultaneously.•
The UI supports batch termination actions with clear feedback.•
Technical Details:
Document user requirements for mass termination, ensuring alignment with business needs.•
Implement backend logic for mass termination and update the UI.•
Design user -friendly UI elements for batch termination, ensuring minimal impact on system 
resources.•
Feedback Alignment:
Simplifies the termination process and reduces manual effort, aligning with user requests to 
streamline workflows.•
Addresses the current limitation of having to disconnect attached codes and delete versions one 
at a time.•
Mass Approval of "What -Ifs" 9.
Description: Develop a feature that enables users to approve multiple "what -if" scenarios at once to 
streamline decision -making.
Acceptance Criteria:
Users can select and approve multiple "what -ifs" simultaneously. •
The system processes mass approvals efficiently and without performance issues.•
Technical Details:
Outline requirements for mass approval and ensure user expectations are documented.•
Implement batch processing logic for "what -if" approvals, maintaining system stability. •
Create mockups that streamline the mass approval process to enhance user interaction.•
Feedback Alignment:
Saves time and improves efficiency, directly addressing user frustrations with having to approve 
each "what -if" individually.•
Reduces repetitive workflows and manual approval processes.•
Direct Code Management (Check/Uncheck) 10.
Description: Enable users to manage (check/uncheck) codes directly within BOMs without needing to 
navigate to parent BOMs.
Acceptance Criteria:
Users can check or uncheck codes directly in BOMs.•
Changes are reflected in real -time within the UI. •
Technical Details:
Identify user requirements for code management and validate with stakeholders.•
Develop functionality to allow for real -time updates within the BOM. •
Feedback Alignment:
Empowers users to manage codes more efficiently, addressing the frustration of having to 
navigate to parent BOMs.•
Enhanced BOM Deletion Process Post -Termination 11.
Description: Simplify the workflow for deleting terminated BOMs, reducing navigation steps and user 
effort.
Acceptance Criteria:
Users can delete terminated BOMs with fewer navigation steps.•
The process supports efficient deletion of terminated BOMs.•
Technical Details:
Modify existing code for a streamlined deletion process.•
Implement UI improvements that make deletion intuitive.•
Feedback Alignment:
Reduces navigation and dependency on support staff, as current workflows require multiple steps 
for deletion.•
Comprehensive Change Log Integration 12.
Description: Introduce a change -tracking system in the BOM Portal for improved transparency and 
troubleshooting.
Acceptance Criteria:
Users can view a comprehensive change log of BOM modifications.•
The change log is easy to navigate and filter by specific criteria.•
Technical Details:
Implement change log capabilities that support user tracking needs.•
Design a user -friendly interface for accessing and reviewing change logs. •
Feedback Alignment:
Helps users track and understand changes without needing external tools or support tickets.•
Improves transparency and aids in troubleshooting.•
Material and Resource Syncing Restoration 13.
Description: Reactivate and optimize syncing functionality for materials and resources to ensure data 
consistency.
Acceptance Criteria:
Syncing functions reliably and updates are visible in the UI.•
Technical Details:
Restore and enhance material and resource syncing.•
Ensure real -time sync status visibility within the UI. •
Feedback Alignment:
Restores essential functionality that had ceased, ensuring data consistency and minimizing •these interfaces is necessary to ensure we are receiving all spec changes and submit to SAP quickly and 
reliably.
Our current Instance of BOM Portal does not use Tyson standard security protocols. This leaves Tyson’s 
data vulnerable which is not acceptable for a SOX controlled system.
Currently Tyson has no on staff experts in BOM Portal from a development standpoint. Normalizing the 
code along with proper documentation will aid in training Tyson staff developers to support BOM Portal.
Savings
Our hard savings will come from not needing external support as these upgrades should allow Tyson 
based developers to perform support and future development.
Soft savings will come from reduced man hours for our Finance, Production, and Engineering team 
members who work with BOM Portal. Currently much of our end user time is spent correcting broken 
BOM’s and investigating issues. This should be greatly reduced with these enhancement
Thanks Angelica. To add to Angelicas thoughts.
Eliminate the multiple copies and approach BOM ‘s from a template approach. (See attached)
We often take many product specs and combine into one BOM this is unchecked inventory 
point issue. Currently BOM portal makes multiple spec copies when additional versions are 
created this makes keeping the BOM structure together very difficult.a.
We also take one spec and make it into multiple BOM’s and recipes. This can create issues 
when multiple BOM versions (Plant Inventory Points) are created and the BOM’s lose 
connectivity to the Spec BOM (Corporate Inventory Point) and cannot receive spec changes.b.1.
Also need to be aware of all the system integrations please see attached system flow.2.
FA
Flores, Angelica
Reply
Reply all
Forward
To:
Homstad, Gregory <Greg.Homstad@tyson.com >; 
Parker, Ann; 
Wolfe, Doug 
Cc:
Schroeder, Geof; 
Lara, Andre; 
Khan, Rohisaba; 
Tran, John 
Thu 11/7/2024 4:52 PM
Here you go!
Current Tasks and Workflows: Understanding your day -to-day use of the BOM Portal
What are the primary tasks you perform on the BOM Portal daily?
Creating new BOMs1.
Deleting obsolete BOMs2.
Updating existing BOMs3.○
Can you describe any workflows that you find repetitive or time -consuming?
Deleting BOMs from BOM Portal. To be able to terminate BOMs in BOM Portal, 
which would delete BOMs and recipes from SAP as well, we need to disconnect 
all codes attached to the BOM we are terminating, and we have to delete all 
versions one at a time.1.
Approving what -ifs. We have to approve what -ifs one at a time because the 
mass process doesn’t currently work.2.
Deleting BOMs from BOM Portal after they’ve been terminated. After 
terminating a BOM, we have to refresh the screen, go to the effective dates 
tab, and click on the “x” next to the date to completely remove the BOM from 
BOM Portal.3.
Approving spec changes. We can approve in mass but have to go into each 
BOM to see what the spec change is.4.○
Are there specific design aspects or user interface elements within the BOM Portal 
that you find particularly helpful or frustrating?
HELPFUL:
Being able to see the codes connected with the “recipe used by” option.1.1.
FRUSTRATING:
Having to refresh the page every 5 -8 minutes because it times out. 1.
Not being able to terminate phantoms, APBs, or plant inventory points.2.
Not being able to remove or add plant inventory points on future ECMs 
without affecting the current BOM.3.
Not being able to receive spec changes on plant inventory points not 
connected directly to a corporate spec.4.
BOMs going from published to edit status for non -material changes. 5.
Not being able to check or uncheck a code from its own BOM, but instead 
having to go to the parent BOM.6.2.○
What tasks do you frequently need to perform outside of the BOM Portal due to its 
limitations?
Deleting BOMs and recipes from SAP through a help desk ticket for plant 
inventory points, phantoms, and APBs.1.
Researching BOMs changes in BOM Portal because BOM Portal currently 
doesn’t record changes.2.
Syncing materials and resources. This feature stopped working.3.○1.
Key Metrics and Dashboard Insights: Identifying the data and KPIs that matter most
Which metrics or KPIs are the most essential for you to monitor on your dashboard?○2.
   UXUI Feature Page 572    
Technical Details:
Restore and enhance material and resource syncing.•
Ensure real -time sync status visibility within the UI. •
Feedback Alignment:
Restores essential functionality that had ceased, ensuring data consistency and minimizing 
disruptions.•
Alert System for Key Status Changes 14.
Description: Develop an alert system to notify users of key status changes, such as flagged deletions, 
and updates to procurement types.
Acceptance Criteria:
Users receive real -time alerts for significant status changes. •
Alerts are integrated seamlessly into the existing UI.•
Technical Details:
Implement alert logic and user -friendly notifications. •
Document triggers for alerts and align with key user requirements.•
Feedback Alignment:
Supports timely decision -making, addressing the need for alerts when changes occur (e.g., B4 or 
Y3 status updates).•
Real -Time Updates for BOM -Spec Disconnects 15.
Description: Ensure real -time updates are provided when there are disconnects between BOMs and 
specifications.
Acceptance Criteria:
Users are notified in real -time of any disconnects. •
Updates are visible within the UI.•
Technical Details:
Implement real -time monitoring and alert features. •
Design UI elements for effective notification.•
Enhanced ECM Process for BOM Management 16.
Description: Improve the Engineering Change Management (ECM) process to reduce production issues 
and enhance overall BOM stability.
Acceptance Criteria:
ECM updates reflect accurately and consistently in BOMs.•
Technical Details:
Enhance ECM processes and ensure data consistency during updates.•
Feedback Alignment:
Addresses limitations in the current ECM process that prevent consistent BOM use.•
Dedicated Processing Aid Section 17.
Description: Add a section for processing aids, allowing manual adjustments without impacting the 
overall formulation.
Acceptance Criteria:
Users can independently adjust processing aids.•
Technical Details:
Implement functionality that allows flexibility in processing aid management.•
Ensure changes do not alter core recipes.•
Feedback Alignment:
Enhances user control, meeting requests for a dedicated area for processing aids.•
Comprehensive BOM Template Management and Schema Specification 18.
Description: Develop a master BOM template system for consistent management and a detailed visual 
specification for internal and external relationships and constraints.
Acceptance Criteria:
Users can create and apply BOM templates efficiently.•
A comprehensive BOM Template ERD is approved by business analysts and data designers.•
Technical Details:
Document the structure and relationships within BOM templates.•
Implement functionality for applying and managing BOM templates.•
Feedback Alignment:
Promotes consistency in BOM creation, reducing unnecessary data replication and simplifying 
template management.•inventory points, phantoms, and APBs.
Researching BOMs changes in BOM Portal because BOM Portal currently 
doesn’t record changes.2.
Syncing materials and resources. This feature stopped working.3.
Key Metrics and Dashboard Insights: Identifying the data and KPIs that matter most
Which metrics or KPIs are the most essential for you to monitor on your dashboard?
BOM status (edit, published, spec change, etc.)1.○
Do you need any specific dashboard/interface elements updated in real -time that 
are currently not? If so, which ones?
Disconnects between BOMs and specs.1.○
Are there any reports on alerts or notifications that could be integrated to improve 
your workflow or help you make quicker decisions?
When codes/materials get flagged for deletion.1.
When codes/materials get a B4 or Y3 status.2.
When the procurement type on a BOM changes from E to F.3.○
How do you currently track these metrics, and what design challenges do you face in 
doing so?○2.
Strategic Goals and Future Enhancements: Exploring potential design improvements
What would be the most important new capabilities or enhancements to support 
your role? Which needs to be preserved?
Being able to terminate BOMs in mass for all material types, including plant 
inventory points, phantoms, APBs, etc.1.
Being able to approve what -ifs in mass. Feature currently doesn’t work. 2.
Being able to identify when a BOM doesn’t match the spec.3.
Being able to identify codes flagged for deletion, in B4 status, and Y3 status.4.○
What design changes could be made to make the system more intuitive or user -
friendly for you and your team?
Disassembly: Seeing recommended disassembly codes based on BOMs already 
set up for other locations.1.○3.
Feedback on Hypothetical Features: Capturing ‘nice -to-have’ design ideas
Are there any ‘nice -to-have’ features or design elements that would improve your 
experience?
Being able to have a separate section for processing aids, where required 
quantities can be manually altered without affecting the formulation of the 
recipe.1.
Being able to check or uncheck codes from their own BOMs.2.○
If you could add one new design element or feature, what would it be and why?
All of the above!1.○4.
Kind Regards
Angelica Flores, Sr Mgr Accounting
Corporate Costing Services
   UXUI Feature Page 573    
Design
Main Content: Home Page 
Navigation Bar :
Located at the top, it includes options like Home , Search/Create , Audits , Admin , Disassembly , 
Reports , Material Request , SiteAdmin , and Dashboard . •
Home button takes you to home page•
Search/Create button opens a new window allows for easy searching based on Plant ID and Recipe 
ID. If a recipe is not found, a dropdown is shown to create •
The audits button takes us to the recipe audit page•
Sidebar :
On the left, there’s a sidebar showing a list of production sites, each labeled with their 
corresponding plant names and their associated plant IDs. Each site has a count indicator next to 
it, possibly representing the total number of materials within each location.•
The sidebar also includes filter categories like Total , Spec Changes , In Edit , and In Error , with 
corresponding counts for easy tracking.•
Main Content Area :
This section is split into two main sections:
Header Section : Displays the selected plant with a dropdown for selecting BOM type 
(Production, Finance, etc)  and summary counts (e.g., Total, Edit).○
Table Section : Displays a table of recipes/materials with columns such as Material , Type , 
Version , Start Date , End Date , Status , Published Date , Update Date , Update User , Create 
Date , and Create User . This layout supports detailed tracking of each material or recipe.○
Action Buttons :
There are controls for filtering/searching, adjusting the page size (items per page), 
columns (ability to select which columns show), Action (once a material is selected the 
following actions can take place: 
Send to SAP -Likely sends the current data or specification to the SAP system. •
Send to SAP /w Phantom -Sends data to SAP with additional parameters or 
configurations labeled as "Phantom."•
Send to SAP /w Debug -Sends data to SAP with debugging enabled, possibly for 
testing or troubleshooting purposes.•
Delete -Removes the selected data, record, or item. •
Clone Finance -Creates a duplicate of the finance -related data or configuration. •
Clone Engineering -Creates a duplicate of the engineering -related data or 
configuration.•
Clone AOP -Clones data or configurations related to the Annual Operating Plan 
(AOP).•
Approve Spec -Approves a specification, marking it as reviewed and accepted. •
Move to Edit -Changes the status of the specification or item to an editable 
state.•
Refresh Spec -Updates or reloads the specification with the latest information. •
Load Esp Standards -Loads or applies ESP (presumably Environmental, Social, 
and Governance standards) to the data.•
Create ECMs What If -Generates hypothetical "What If" Engineering Change 
Management (ECM) scenarios.•
Test What If -Tests the hypothetical ECM scenarios to see possible outcomes or 
impacts.•
Approve What If -Approves the "What If" scenario after testing, possibly 
making it official or moving it forward for implementation.•▪a.•
Main Content: Recipe Audit
https://bomportal -dev.cloud.tyson.com/Audit/#
Filters:
Plant Dropdown: Allows users to search audits by a specific plant and material •
Material Dropdown: Provides the option to select a specific material associated with a recipe. •
Search Box: Users can search audits by entering keywords or criteria. •
Table Columns: The table below the filters is designed to display audit information
Version: represents the version of the recipe or BOM. •
BOM Type: Specifies the type of BOM associated with the recipe. •
Recipe ID: Unique identifier for each recipe. •
Audit Date: Shows when the audit was conducted. (Column sorted in ascending or 
descending order as indicated by the arrow.)•
User Name: Identifies the user who performed or initiated the audit. •
Audit Status: Displays the status of the audit (e.g., completed, pending). •
Recipe Status: Indicates the current status of the recipe (e.g., active, inactive, in progress). •••
Admin dropdown: Recipe Admin
https://bomportal -dev.cloud.tyson.com/RecipeAdmin/#/
Main Functional Area
Filters and Search Options (Left Sidebar) :
Plant Dropdown : The selected plant here is "1057 -BERRYVILLE PROC." This dropdown allows 
users to select a plant location for filtering materials.•
Material Number Input : A text box where users can enter a specific material number to narrow 
down the search.•
Buttons :
Search : A large blue button at the top initiates the search based on the selected plant and 
material number.•
Move to Edit : This button moves the material into edit status •
Refresh Spec : used to refresh or update the specifications displayed based on the most 
current data.•
Results Table (Main Content Area) : a.
Table Columns :
Plant : Displays the plant associated with each material entry.▪••Homepage 
Search/Create Button opens a new window
Recipe Audit
Get more info on recipe audit from Andre
Admin: Recipe Admin
System Design Document
Friday, November 01, 2024 12:34 PM
   UXUI Feature Page 574    
Move to Edit : This button moves the material into edit status •
Refresh Spec : used to refresh or update the specifications displayed based on the most 
current data.•
Results Table (Main Content Area) : a.
Table Columns :
Plant : Displays the plant associated with each material entry.▪
Material : Shows the material number or identifier. ▪
Description : Provides a description of the material. ▪
Version : Indicates the version of the material or BOM. ▪
Status : Displays the current status of the material (e.g., active, inactive). ▪
Owner : Identifies the owner or person responsible for the material. ▪
Pagination Controls : At the bottom right, there are options to navigate between 
pages (First, Previous, Next, Last).▪
No Data Message : Currently, the table displays "No data available in table," indicating 
that no materials match the selected filters or the material list is empty for this plant.▪•
Admin dropdown: User Security
https://bomportal -dev.cloud.tyson.com/UserSecurity/
A prominent search bar at the top allows for quick searching of users by name, username, There is also 
a button to the right of the search bar to create a bom Portal User•
Table Layout:
User information is presented in a clean and organized table format, enhancing readability and 
ease of use.•
Table Columns:
User Security Access Icon/Button: This button when selected opens a page displaying a 
user's access to the different BOM's as well as all the functionalities ▪
User Plant Access Icon/Button: This button when selected opens a page that has a table 
of plants that the specific user is subscribed to. There is a checkbox list of all plants and an 
apply and close button at the bottom ▪
Action Icon: Next to the User Plant Access icon, there is a button that allows to activate or 
deactivate users. User's that are active already show an X by their name to deactivate, 
users that are not active show a check by their name to activate the user. ▪
Email: Should Display User's email, however only displays Username ▪
Full Name: Shows the user's full name, making it easy to identify individual users. ▪
Last Viewed: Indicates the last time the user accessed the system, helping administrators 
track user activity.▪••
Admin dropdown: Spec Change Log
https://bomportal -dev.cloud.tyson.com/Admin/SpecChangeLog
Main Content: Spec Change Log Table Layout:
"Spec Change Log" . This table is designed to track and display changes related to specifications, likely in a 
manufacturing or inventory management context. 
Search Bar: A search bar is provided to filter the entries based on user input, making it easier to find 
specific logs.•
Table Columns:
Re-Run: A button in each row, presumably to re -run a process related to the entry. •
Key: A unique identifier, likely a GUID (Globally Unique Identifier), for each entry.•
Material: A numerical code representing a specific material. •
Complete: A boolean value (true/false) indicating whether the process is complete. •
EffDate: A date and time stamp, possibly indicating the effective date of the change. •
Status: •
Status1: •
ErrorType: Describes the type of error encountered. •
Date: A date and time stamp, likely related to the error occurrence or last known spec change.•
Error: A button labeled "Show Error," which presumably reveals more details about the error 
when clicked. •
Admin dropdown: Plant Config
https://bomportal -dev.cloud.tyson.com/Admin/PlantConfiguration
When initially launched the user is prompted with a dropdown to select a plant
Once the plant is selected, the Plant configuration populates
Plant Configuration
Left Side:
Plant Configuration:
Plant Selection: Focuses on defining the setup for plant. •
Toggles: 
SAP Active: Likely controls data integration with SAP systems. Can be toggled on or off •
Can Override Formulation: This allows plant to override formulation spec quantity ••
BOM (Bill of Materials) Settings: 
Standard Type: Options for different departments such as Production, Finance, Engineering, and 
AOP, with ESP  and Demonstrated as options.•
Driver and Use Global Scrap Toggles: ••
Add Plant Materials:
Search Bar: Labeled "Material" for finding and adding specific materials. •
Checkbox: "Create for 0300 as well" suggests duplicating the selected material for another plant or 
process labeled "0300."•
Add Button: Confirms the material selection and adds to list of materials. •
Materials:
List of Existing Materials: Displays "Material" ID, "Description," and "Group." •
Search Bar: For filtering the material list. •
Right Side:
Phantom BOM Notification:
Toggle: "Phantom Notify" to enable or disable notifications related to "Phantom BOMs" •
Resources:
Search Bar: Enables filtering the resource list. •
Table Display: 
Plant Resource: Unique identifier for each resource. •
Description: Brief description of the resource. ••Admin: Recipe Admin
Admin: User Security
User Security Access Icon/Button
User Plant Access Icon/Button
Admin: Spec Change Log
Admin: Plant Config
   UXUI Feature Page 575    
•
Resources:
Search Bar: Enables filtering the resource list. •
Table Display: 
Plant Resource: Unique identifier for each resource. •
Description: Brief description of the resource. •
Network: Likely indicates the network segment or location associated with the resource. ••
Admin dropdown: Global Scrap
https://bomportal -dev.cloud.tyson.com/Admin/GlobalScrap
Search Bar:
Functionality: Allows users to search by either plant or material. •
If Searching by Plant:
Table Display: 
Code: Displays the plant code.•
Description: Shows the name of the plant. •
Count: Likely represents the number of items or occurrences related to the plant. •
Active BOMs: Indicates which BOMs (e.g., production, finance, engineering) the plant is 
active in.••
If Searching by Material Group:
Material Type: Specifies the type of material. •
Code: Displays the material code.•
Description: Provides a description of the material. •
Scrap: Indicates scrap details, possibly categorized by poultry or prepared materials. This 
interface is likely used for managing and reviewing scrap settings across different plants and 
material groups, providing a comprehensive view of where and how scrap is accounted for in 
various BOMs.•
Admin Dropdown: Security Summary
https://bomportal -dev.cloud.tyson.com/Admin/SecuritySummary
Report generated with security and roles for users in plant. 
Left Side:
Plant Dropdown:
Functionality: Allows users to select or search for a specific plant. •
Role Type Filters:
Checkboxes: Options to filter the report based on different role types such as finance, 
production, etc.•
Buttons:
Load Button: Generates the report based on the selected plant and role type filters. •
Export Button: Allows the generated report to be exported to an Excel file. •
Right Side:
Security Summary Table:
Display: Once the Load button is selected, the table titled "Security Summary" populates with 
the following columns: 
First Name: Displays the first name of the user. •
Last Name: Displays the last name of the user. •
Role Name: Shows the role assigned to the user. •
Plant: Indicates the plant associated with the user.••
Disassembly
[Will need to get with andre for better understanding]
Disassembly: Materials Withdrawn
Search Functionality:
Search Button: Allows users to search by: 
Plant•
Sellable Material•
Costing Material••
Update Functionality:
Update Button: Allows users to update material information by entering all required items in the form. •
Add Functionality:
Add Button: Allows users to add new material withdrawal entries. •
Table Display:
Once a search is performed, the table displays the following columns:
Plant Code: The code representing the plant. •
Sellable Material: The material that is sellable. •
Costing Material: The material used for costing purposes. •
Usage Percentage: The percentage of usage for the material. •
Delete Button: A button at the end of each row that allows users to delete material withdrawal 
entries.•
Reports
https://bomportal -dev.cloud.tyson.com/Report
This URL Houses all of our reports
Available Reports:
ESP Rejections: 
Search Parameters: Users can search by plant and specify the number of days. •
Load Button: Generates the report based on the selected plant and days. •1.
Recipe Detail: 
Search Parameters: Users can select the plant, report type, and enter material number(s). •
Load Button: Generates the report based on the selected parameters. •2.
Material Resource Report: 
Functionality: Provides detailed information on material resources. •3.
Standards Lock/Unlock: 
Functionality: Manages the locking and unlocking of standards. •4.
Recon Report: 
Functionality: Provides reconciliation reports. •5.
Material Request
https://bomportal -dev.cloud.tyson.com/Mrs/Create/0Admin: Global Scrap
Admin: Plant Config
Admin: Security Summary
Disassembly
Dissasembly: Materials withdrawn
   UXUI Feature Page 576    
Recon Report: 
Functionality: Provides reconciliation reports. •5.
Material Request
https://bomportal -dev.cloud.tyson.com/Mrs/Create/0
Material dropdown –allows choose material
Costing material change requested note space: enter notes as to why change requested
Submit button, submits Material request
Previous requests
Table shows date submitted, MRS number, reason, and request
Site Admin: Developer
Site Admin: BOM Settings
Site Admin: Lock/Unlock Plants
Site Admin: Patch Information
DashboardDissasembly: Materials withdrawn
   UXUI Feature Page 577    
User Story 1: Okta Sign -In Integration •
As a BOM Portal user, I want to securely log in using Okta so that I can ensure my access is 
authenticated and secure.•
Expanded Details : •
Justification : Enhancing security through a reliable authentication system reduces risks associated 
with unauthorized access.•
Technical Considerations :
Integration with existing IAM (Identity and Access Management) protocols.○
Compatibility with multi -factor authentication (MFA) for added security. ○•
Dependencies : Implementation of Okta API, coordination with IT security teams for integration. •
Acceptance Criteria :
Users can successfully log in using Okta credentials.○
Role -based access is enforced based on the user’s profile after login.○•
User Story 2: User Role and Permission Management•
As an admin, I want to manage user roles and permissions in the BOM Portal so that I can control 
access based on user roles and responsibilities.•
Expanded Details : •
Justification : Role -based access control ensures that only authorized personnel can perform 
specific actions, maintaining data integrity and security.•
Functional Requirements :
Admins should be able to create new roles, assign permissions, and delete or modify 
existing roles.○
Detailed audit trails should track changes made to user roles.○•
Dependencies : Integration with Okta’s IAM capabilities, security policy adherence. •
Acceptance Criteria :
Admins have a dashboard to manage user roles effectively.○
Role modifications trigger notifications to system administrators.○•
User Story 3: Enhanced UI Navigation•
As a BOM Portal user, I want the UI to be more intuitive with fewer navigation steps so that I can 
access essential features quickly and efficiently.•
Expanded Details : •
Justification : Improved navigation minimizes user frustration and increases productivity. •
User Experience (UX) Considerations :
Redesign key workflows for fewer clicks.○
Implement consistent menu structures and shortcuts for frequent tasks.○•
Technical Requirements :
Use modern front -end frameworks to enhance responsiveness. ○•
Acceptance Criteria :
Users experience a 30% reduction in the number of clicks needed for common tasks.○
User feedback on new UI designs is positive, with approval ratings above 80%.○•
User Story 4: Mass Termination Capability•
As a BOM Portal user, I want to terminate multiple BOMs at once so that I can save time and 
effort in managing obsolete data.•User Stories
Wednesday, November 13, 2024 2:18 PM
   UXUI Feature Page 578    
effort in managing obsolete data.
Expanded Details : •
Justification : Mass termination improves efficiency and minimizes repetitive manual work. •
Functional Requirements :
Users should be able to select BOMs through a multi -select feature and initiate batch 
termination.○
Termination actions should have an “Undo” option for a limited time to prevent errors.○•
Performance Considerations :
Ensure batch operations do not impact overall system performance or lead to timeouts.○•
Acceptance Criteria :
Users can terminate multiple BOMs simultaneously without performance lags.○
Batch terminations are logged with details for audit purposes.○•
User Story 5: Mass Approval of "What -If" Scenarios •
As a BOM Portal user, I want to approve multiple "what -if" scenarios at once so that I can 
streamline my decision -making process.•
Expanded Details : •
Justification : This feature reduces the time needed to handle bulk data approvals and supports 
efficient scenario planning.•
Functional Requirements :
Users should be able to filter and select "what -if" scenarios based on defined criteria (e.g., 
date, status).○•
Risk Management :
Ensure batch approvals do not create conflicts in concurrent data changes.○•
Acceptance Criteria :
Approvals are processed efficiently, with notifications for completed actions.○
Approval process includes validation checks to ensure data integrity.○•
User Story 6: Comprehensive Change Log•
As a BOM Portal user, I want to view a detailed change log of BOM modifications so that I can 
track changes and troubleshoot issues.•
Expanded Details : •
Justification : A comprehensive change log provides transparency and aids in compliance and 
troubleshooting.•
Technical Requirements :
The log should display who made changes, what changes were made, and timestamps.○
Filtering options for date ranges, user activity, and type of change.○•
Data Storage Considerations :
Ensure that change log data is stored securely and efficiently.○•
Acceptance Criteria :
Users can access and filter the change log by multiple criteria.○
The log is updated in real -time with minimal latency. ○•
User Story 7: Material and Resource Syncing•
As a BOM Portal user, I want material and resource syncing to work reliably so that I can maintain 
data consistency across the system.•
Expanded Details : •
Justification : Data consistency is crucial for accurate reporting and workflow management. •
Functional Requirements :
Implement real -time syncing and status checks for updates to materials and resources. ○
Include automatic conflict resolution where feasible.○•
   UXUI Feature Page 579    
Include automatic conflict resolution where feasible.○
Performance Considerations :
Ensure that syncing operations do not affect portal performance during peak usage times.○•
Acceptance Criteria :
Syncing operations are reliable and display real -time status updates. ○
Users are notified of any failed syncs with error descriptions.○•
User Story 8: Alert System for Key Status Changes•
As a BOM Portal user, I want to receive alerts for significant status changes so that I can act 
promptly when necessary.•
Expanded Details : •
Justification : Alerts enable timely responses and proactive management. •
Functional Requirements :
Customize alert preferences (e.g., email notifications, in -app alerts). ○•
Integration Considerations :
Ensure seamless integration with the existing notification framework.○•
Acceptance Criteria :
Users receive real -time notifications for flagged status changes. ○
Alerts are customizable based on user roles and preferences.○•
User Story 9: Enhanced ECM Process•
As a BOM Portal user, I want ECM updates to reflect consistently in the BOM so that I can ensure 
data stability and avoid production issues.•
Expanded Details : •
Justification : Consistent ECM updates minimize disruptions in production planning. •
Technical Requirements :
Integrate ECM changes into the portal with real -time data validation. ○
Implement automated alerts for discrepancies detected during ECM updates.○•
Acceptance Criteria :
ECM changes are accurately updated and reflected in related BOMs.○
No data discrepancies occur post -update. ○•
User Story 10: Dedicated Processing Aid Management•
As a BOM Portal user, I want a dedicated section for managing processing aids so that I can adjust 
them without impacting the main formulation.•
Expanded Details : •
Justification : This feature supports flexibility in managing processing aids without altering primary 
recipes.•
Functional Requirements :
A user -friendly interface for managing processing aid quantities. ○
Controls for tracking adjustments without affecting overall formulation balance.○•
Acceptance Criteria :
Users can make adjustments in a dedicated section without impacting the core formulation.○
Audit trails capture all changes made to processing aids for review.○•
Summary of Expanded Acceptance Criteria•
Okta Integration : Secure login with role -based permissions. •
Role Management : Full admin control over roles and permissions. •
Enhanced UI : Reduced clicks and user -approved designs. •
Mass Operations : Reliable termination and approval features with minimal performance impact. •
Change Log : Detailed and filterable log for tracking changes. •
Syncing : Real -time and reliable material/resource syncing. •
Alerts : Customizable real -time notifications for key changes. •
   UXUI Feature Page 580    
Alerts : Customizable real -time notifications for key changes. •
ECM Updates : Consistent and accurate reflection in BOMs. •
Processing Aid Management : Dedicated section with secure adjustments. •
These expanded details ensure each user story has clear technical, functional, and user -centric 
elements to guide the development and testing process. Let me know if you need further 
elaboration or additional user stories!•
•
These user stories can be refined or expanded with additional details as needed. Let me know if you'd 
like more information or modifications!
   UXUI Feature Page 581    
User Interface (UI) Mockups and Wireframes:
Wednesday, November 13, 2024 2:19 PM
   UXUI Feature Page 582    
Who will use the interface? Managers, field users, plant controllers, etc. 
What information is being exchanged through the interface, how much data?
When information exchanges occur, what information is being exchanged and how frequently
Where will thte information change occur
How the interface should be implemented. 
Prepare for Identification
Conduct interface identification,
Hello everyone! As we are set to begin phase 2 in december I wanted to take some time to learn more 
about what this system sillwInterface Analysis
Monday, November 25, 2024 11:38 AM
   UXUI Feature Page 583    
Home Page
Status tiles
Total –Shows total of all statuses combined
Spec Changes 
Edit
What if
Errors
Filterable Grid
Status and material should display
Bom types show in matrix relating to material
Bom Type
Plant Dropdown
Admin Page
Recipe Admin
Plant Config
Global Scrap
Security summary? 
Filterable process log –spec change log
Create ability to look at multiple logs. Home Page
Similar to what we currently have and as little data as we have initilially. 
When the home page loads we want to load a default view that does not accommodate user roles and 
will be the same no matter who access it. This will act as a starting point to the BOM Portal and will 
allow for performance gains as we will only populate the plant the user has selected. Currently bom 
portal loads all plants on startup. For the left side plant navigation it will remain with similar 
functionality. The difference is instead of loading all plant data we want to only load data of the plant in 
focus and by bom type ie production, finance, engineering. Unfocused items will still show the total 
amount of materials.  A user will have to select the plant and bom type in order to load its material data 
fully. 
Once a plant is selected the plant grid, will populate as well as the status tiles. 
Status tiles will show the following
Total –Total of all materials no matter the status within selected plant
Spec changes –total of all materials with spec changes
In edit –total of all materials in edit
What if –total of all materials in what if status
Error –total of all errors
We need to get to the UI team have it all on one screen
Maybe not totals, maybe instead see how many what ifs
Accumulation of total edit and errors, spec changes, working materials. UI Jira Tickets 12/3
Tuesday, December 03, 2024 8:40 AM
   UXUI Feature Page 584    
Home Page
Story ID Title Description Acceptance Criteria Technical Details Points
Plant Select -UI 
ComponentProvides users with a list that lists all 
plants they have access to. Each plant 
will display the total number of BOMs 
associated with it. When a user selects 
a plant from the list grid items on the 
page will update to reflect the data 
related to the selected plant. Menu List component 
Displays all plants available to user•
Shows total number of BOMs next to 
each plant in list•
Dynamic Grid Update;
Grid items change based on selected 
plant•Front End: 
Data Grid -Filtering -UI 
ComponentStatus and Material always shown•
Columns should be able to be sorted by the 
top.•
Columns should be customizable in what 
appears.•
Filter function added to column•
Page size setting•7
Status Card -UI 
ComponentColor coded•
Number•
Graphic•
Status text•
Navigation Action•
Status UI -
Implementation Status 
CardTile created for 5 existing statuses•
Click event filter down Bom UI•
Bom UI -
Implementation Data 
GridRead method for Bill of Material•
References new tables•3
BOM UI -misc 
functionalityDeferred Material hyperlink navigates to what was 
formulation viewer.•
Formulation Viewer -
Implementation Data 
GridDeferred Migrate from Grid to Data Grid•
Formulation Viewer -
GraphDeferred Status Color coding•
Node coloring based on type•
Legend•
Admin Page
Recipe admin
Plant config
Global scra
Security summary?
Filterable process log –spec change log
Create ability to look at multiple logs. 
Story ID Title Description Acceptance Criteria Technical 
DetailsPoints
1 Process Log: 
Business LogicTable Fields: Process, 
Transaction, 
TransactionCounter, 
Message, DateTime, User, 
Request, Response, 
ResponseTime• Table Fields: Process, 
Transaction, 
TransactionCounter, 
Message, DateTime, User, 
Request, Response, 
ResponseTime•
View, maintain, purge 
methods/endpoints•
2 Process Log: 
Chronicle Job 
for Purge(Reference 1015 Recon 
Report)• Python script to call 
endpoint.•
3 Process Log: 
Implementatio
n for PDM 
GuaranteeLogging occurs PDM Side•
Logging on the Bom Portal 
Side•
Ensure output goes to 
console,•
Call process log method to 
insert process log.•
Process Log UI: 
Implementatio
n Data GridCall the process log 
business logic method 
endpoint and load the 
data to the control•
Process Log 
UI -misc 
functionalityDeferred for now Button to show the JSON 
response and request 
data.•
Recipe Admin 
ModuleDeferred for now Search Material by Plant 
and Material Number•
Ability to mass move to 
Edit•
Ability to mass refresh 
specs•
Grid displaying: Plant, 
Material, Description, 
Version, Status, Owner•
Plant Config 
ModuleDeferred for now Plant specific selection.
Ability to create Plant 
config based on existing 
plant.
Can switch between poultry 
and prepared plant
Override formulation toggle
Standard type, Driver, and 
Use Global Scrap settings 
based on each BomTypeStories 12/4
Wednesday, December 04, 2024 1:47 PM
   UXUI Feature Page 585    
based on each BomType
Phantom Bom Notification 
Toggle.
Ability to add, view, and 
refresh plant materials
Ability to view and refresh 
plant "Resources"
Global Scrap 
ModuleDeferred for now
   UXUI Feature Page 586    
Story ID TitleDescription Acceptance Criteria Technical Details Points
EFI-3107 PHASE2 -Okta 
Configuration for 
BOM PortalAs an admin, I need to 
configure Okta for BOM 
Portal so that users can 
authenticate and authorize 
access to new UIs like 
Formulation Viewer.Ensure the following is accomplished for DEV, QA, PREP, PROD 
environments: 
Custom Authentication Server set up for BOM Portal•
Okta application is configured correctly for BOM Portal.•
Appropriate scopes and claims are set up in Okta.•
Okta groups and roles match BOM Portal permissions.•
Documentation for Okta configuration is created and shared 
with the team•OKTA ARCHITECT: Paco Cisneros
Lower Okta Access Environments:
https://login -dev.tyson.com/enduser/settings
https://login -qa.tyson.com/enduser/settings
Set up Okta Custom Authentication Server for BOM Portal. •
Set up Okta application and configure appropriate settings for BOM Portal.•
Ensure necessary scopes and claims are included in the Okta configuration.•
Create and manage Okta groups and roles that correspond to BOM Portal 
permissions.•5
EFI-2636PHASE2 -BOM 
Version Schema 
Spec ( Priority Day 
1 )As a BOM project information 
developer, I have a clear 
visual specification for the 
BOM Version internal and 
external relationships and 
constraints, so that I can 
implement and use the BOM 
Version data tier with ease.BOM Version ERD is approved by business analyst and data designer Define a concrete ERD for the BOM Version entities, based on the completed 
functional requirements and data relationship documents. It must be well -
normalized and must enforce all reasonable constraints to avoid repeated higher -
level validations and consistency tests.6
EFI-2793PHASE2 -Structured 
SysLog: Splunk 
DashboardDevelop a baseline Splunk 
dashboard that categorizes 
external and defect errors, 
summarizes endpoint request 
quantity and response times, 
displays application restarts, 
and counts exception types, 
and provide short team 
Splunk training and demo.defects and integrated / external system failures are clearly 
distinguished and surfaced in a published enterprise log dashboard•
validation errors are visible with a unique Id linking to object that 
failed validation•
missing configurations are visible including which deployment and 
setting is missing•
application restarts are visible•
average API response times by endpoint are visible•
uncategorized logs are observed in order to have a plan of action to 
address in a more meaningful manner•
team members demonstrate basic Splunk query familiarity•3
EFI 3026PHASE2 -Validation 
User LogsAs a BOM Portal user, I can 
understand the concise/non -
technical validation summary, 
so that I am not frustrated by 
resulting rejections during 
human -initiated actions such 
as BOM creation.Validation summary has the following qualities:
easily understandable by target audience•
distinguishes problems requiring external action, internal business 
action, and internal defect resolution•
provides sufficient information to initiate resolution•
captures failures for new formulations (with no replica present yet)•
differentiates violation of PDM validation vs. BOM -extended 
validations•The validation error result pattern must include not only data that is systematically 
consumable, but also information that is easily transformed to a human -
presentable response. This data is collected, most likely in the database store to 
represent relation to formulations and materials.6
EFI 3028PHASE2 -Formulation 
Event/Status UIAs a BOM Portal user, I can 
see formulation status and 
event history in a category -
searchable UI, so that I can 
understand changes, resolve 
business effects from poor 
statuses, and escalate if 
necessary.Formulation Viewer is enhanced to provide a unified view of all 
formulation events
Supports viewing formulation without resolving expiry•
Permits search by last updated date•
Permits search by last -known inconsistent •
Updates succeeded including version•
Updates failed due to validation•
Updates failed due to external system failures•
Updates failed due to defects•
Update entries include cause of update•
Displays failures for new formulations (with no replica present yet)•
Late -discovered Inconsistencies, e.g. from periodic or demand scans•
Dependent BOM navigation links•When validation errors arise, log to persistence that can be summarized or 
searched in a BOM Portal UI. This is probably captured to the main BOM Portal 
MySQL database. It will depend on a UI implementation; because this is a 
formulation -centric issue, the formulation -viewer may be the appropriate hub to 
present this information. A formulation with a current SpecChange error status 
should be observable while viewing the formulation (or any BOM derived from it in 
the future).6
EFI -3027PHASE2 -Formulation 
Event AuditAs a BOM Portal maintainer, I 
can see audit history of all 
successful and failed BOM 
Portal formulation update 
events, so that I can trace the 
origin of current data and 
avoid production risks.Formulation updates are entirely contained within a logged failure 
check•
The log schema supports records of late -discovered inconsistencies •Formulation updates can fail for reasons other than validation failures, such as 
integrated system failures and software defects. All failures, whether observed or 
discovered later by dependent processes, must be captured for presentation in a 
unified report. Changes to formulations and affected BOMs are recorded in an audit 
log in a manner than can be presented in a unified report with Validation User Logs 
and other formulation events.6
EFI-2639PHASE2 -UI Rough 
DraftsAs a BOM business 
stakeholder or BOM UI 
developer, I have a document 
presenting clear vision for the 
functionality surfaced in the 
BOM Assembly UI, so that I 
have a tangible artifact 
demonstrating the application 
goals and can participate in 
the approval and 
development the UIApplication UI wireframes/mocks and workflow document, with 
approval by:
UI developer for feasibility•
Mid-tier developer for feasability•
UX designer for usability and application standards•
Business Analyst and Business for functional requirements•The application UI vision has a critical relationship to the core application data 
schema, each informing the other; both should be drafted in concurrently.6
EFI-3029PHASE2 -
Inconsistent 
Formulation 
SummaryAs a Cost Accounting 
member, I can view 
formulations and related 
BOMs that are not current, so 
that I can avoid production 
risks.All rejected updates have human -readable causes identified •
Includes periodic reconciliation information•
Includes eventual consistency digest comparisons or comparable 
evaluations•This should be summarized in the formulation status report; however, it will likely 
also include special knowledge provided by the eventual consistency 
implementation and a periodic formulation reconcilation process.3
EFI-2641PHASE2 -Schema 
DevOpsAs a BOM Portal engineer, I 
have an automated system 
that enforces code and 
database system alignment 
and standardizes deployment, 
so that I can focus on 
improvements rather than 
manual system maintenanceDefined Data Domain divisions, if any (e.g. assembly/disassembly or 
formulation/bomtemplate/bomversion)•
Estimated DBA deployment workflow, including reconciliation to 
intended schema, possibly authorized subset of developers for 
schema work•
Support for DB/mid -tier static type checking •State the project standard approved schema and ERD development workflow, 
accounting for; DB/ORM static type checking, expected DBA roles, aligned version 
promotion, CI/CD pipeline roles, version rollback, expectation for domain model 
splits, etc. Develop any missing devop steps; refer to existing DomainModel code.7
EFI-3030PHASE2 -
Microversion 
ReplacementAs a BOM business data 
owner, I have clear and 
concise control over what 
fields constitute a BOM -
relevant formulation change, 
so that I can make BOM 
workflow decisions based on 
my business needs.Formulation updates that have no effect on BOMs can be 
distinguished to avoid requiring BOM Publishing of those updates• Implement a formulation property digest or other property -comparison -based 
strategy that identifies whether formulation changes are relevant to BOM 
outcomes, and permits tracking the drift of dependent BOM Versions relative to 
those changes.5
EFI-3033PHASE2 -As a consumer of PDM A summary technique is implemented with sufficient confidence to • Today, BOM Portal identifies SpecChanges by version ID. Because this value is 4Stories 12/10
Monday, December 09, 2024 2:04 PM
   UXUI Feature Page 587    
EFI-3033PHASE2 -
Formulation Version 
CheckAs a consumer of PDM 
OfficialProduct, I can uniquely 
identify a material 
formulation update with 
confidence by a concise value, 
so that I may quickly verify 
data for a specific material.A summary technique is implemented with sufficient confidence to 
rapidly verify that a single formulation is current•
Optionally provides a targeted consistency guarantee, e.g. via a 
digest.•Today, BOM Portal identifies SpecChanges by version ID. Because this value is 
manually adjusted, human errors can result in multiple formulation variations with 
a single version; and ignoring the latest variation. We must have a concise value 
that is guaranteed to uniquely identify the formulation values that BOM Portal 
consumes; less optimially this may identify formulation changes that are irrelevant 
to BOM Portal.4
EFI-3034PHASE2 -
Formulation 
ReconciliationAs a BOM business data 
owner, I have a backup 
system to verify every 
formulation is consistent, so 
that I have the confidence to 
transition away from legacy 
recipe -based recon to single -
instance formulations.Inconsistent formulations are periodically discovered, logged, and 
autocorrected•
The periodic process runs with frequency sufficient to offset any 
reliability shortcoming of the eventual consistency strategy and 
human error•These results must be aggregated to formulation event UI. 5
EFI-2642PHASE2 -BOM 
Template 
ImplementationBOM Template ERD is implemented according to approved functional 
specifications, including constraints• 6
EFI-2643PHASE2 –BOM 
Version 
ImplementationBOM Version ERD is implemented according to approved functional 
specifications, including constraints• 6
EFI-2644PHASE2 -
FormulationReplica 
ConstraintsAs a BOM data user, I know 
that copies of formulation 
data held by BOM Portal are 
internally constrained to 
validity rules, so that I do not 
have to check in my code or 
business workflow for 
corruption or inconsistencies 
caused by humans or 
defective processesFormulationReplica constraints are implemented as per original 
approved schema, with any discovered adjustments for PDM 
interface epic•
Verified data rejections meet functional requirements; such as 
overlapping templates, invalid attachments•Apply FormulationReplica constraints; e.g. a component may not be a member of 
both packaging and input groups.2
EFI-2629PHASE2 -Client Log 
Collection1
EFI-2623PHASE2 -User 
AuthorizationAs a FormulationViewer user, 
I have controlled access to 
the FormulationViewer 
application, so that Tyson 
formulation data is protected.Users can be granted access at selected granularity (plant type, plant, 
BOM type, role, right)•
Access grants come from specified source (ARS, database)•
Support declarative expression of grants at API or service layer•Define functional requirements
Reduce granularity of per -user access grants •
Reduce/normalize grant axes (plant, bomtype, rights)•1
EFI-2624PHASE2 -Navigation 
IntegrationAs a BOM Portal developer, I 
can easily integrate new UI 
(such as Formulation Viewer) 
navigation into the existing 
application, so that I can 
quickly provide users both old 
and new functionality without 
a heavy legacy code 
maintenance burdenDesign avoids redeveloping the current unintuitive navigation in a 
new framework•
Implementation does not rely on same -page implementation of 
deprecated software•
Design supports eventual navigation refresh•
Business and technical members approve legacy/new navigation 
strategy for all upcoming Blazor work•
First Blazor UI (e.g. Formulation Viewer) is navigable within BOM 
Portal•Develop a navigation strategy that supports new BOM Portal Assembly UIs, and can 
be easily navigated to from the main BOM Portal navigation interaction. Also, the 
existing BOM Portal navigation is confusing and makes it difficult to find specific 
screens and functionality. Navigation should be improved and screen should be 
placed under more inuitive groupings or locations; develop a vision for how and 
when legacy BOM Navigation will be revised, to ensure the approach supports the 
long -term enhancement.4
EFI-3109PHASE2 -OKTA JWT 
Token Handling in 
API LayerAs a BOM Portal User, my 
JWT token needs to be 
observed and validated in the 
API layer so that my access to 
information can be securely 
controlled.Middleware for JWT token validation is implemented.•
API endpoints are secured and require a valid JWT token.•
JWT token claims are used for access control.•
Documentation for JWT token handling is created and shared with the 
team.•
Implementation is separated and resusable across multiple 
microservices•
Declarative identity/claims controls are supported at API endpoints•Implement middleware to handle JWT token validation.•
Secure API endpoints to require a valid JWT token for access.•
Ensure JWT token includes necessary claims for API access control.•4
EFI-2621PHASE2 -IAM 
Interface Design 
(OKTA)As a Tyson software security 
analyst, I expect that all 
future development of the 
BOM Portal will follow a 
straightforward and reliable 
approach to ensure secure 
user operations. This means 
that the user interface and 
backend controls must work 
together to meet security 
requirements, so Tyson's data 
remains protected. The 
security practices should be 
easy to maintain and ensure 
that we can consistently 
monitor and address any 
security concerns during 
ongoing maintenance.Develop, document, and integrate a strategy to share user identity and 
authorizations (e.g. grants, groups, rights, roles) between mid and front tiers. 
Gracefully surface rejections at the client. Provide declarative assignment at mid -
tier endpoints and/or service methods. Support queries for implementing UI 
authorization cues. A broad review of long -term goals for BOM Portal user security 
rights is an appropriate input to this story.2
EFI-3060PHASE2  -
Configuration 
Pattern -Front -End 
Configuration 
Retrieval API  (OKTA)Allow the front -end 
components to dynamically 
retrieve configuration 
settings.Develop RESTful or GraphQL APIs to provide configuration data to the 
front -end.
Implement caching on the client -side to minimize API calls and improve 
performance.
Ensure security through authentication and authorization mechanisms.
Include logging and monitoring for API usage and performance.5
EFI-3108PHASE2 -Okta Sign -
In Integration in 
Blazor UIAs a BOM Portal User, I need 
to sign in through Okta to 
access new UIs so that my 
identity can be used to 
control access to sensitive 
information.Users can sign in via Okta and are redirected back to the Blazor UI.•
Okta access token (JWT) is obtained and stored securely.•
User identity is used to control access to new UIs like Formulation 
Viewer.•
Token Refresh is handled seamlessly•
Logout, Token Expiry, an d Login Rejections are intuitive•Implement Okta sign -in workflow in Blazor UI. •
Redirect users to Okta -hosted sign -in page and handle redirection back to the 
application.•
Obtain and store Okta access token (JWT) upon successful authentication.•
Implement token refresh mechanism in the client -side Blazor UI. •
Handle token expiry and re -authentication seamlessly. •
Ensure the user experience is intuitive and handles edge cases like login rejection 
due to lack of OIDC grant.•3
   UXUI Feature Page 588    
Given the following Functional requirements, draft each section of the document to reflect this 
information below:
The following sections should be updated
INTRODUCTION 4
1.1 Purpose 4
2.0 PROJECT OVERVIEW 4
2.2 Assumptions 4
2.3 Constraints 4
2.4 Risks 4
3.0 SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS 4
3.1 As Is 4
3.2 To Be 4
Home Page
Story ID: 4191
Title: Plant Select -UI Component Description:
All plants user has been shown.•
Total BOMs are shown next to the plant in the dropdown.•
Grid items change on plant change. Acceptance Criteria: •
Dropdown displays all plants available to the user.•
Each plant in the dropdown shows the total number of BOMs next to it.•
When a plant is selected, the grid items update to reflect the BOMs for that plant. •
Technical Details:
Implement a dropdown component that fetches and displays plant data.•
Ensure the dropdown shows the total BOMs next to each plant.•
Implement event handling to update the grid items based on the selected plant. Points: 3 •
Story ID: 4192
Title: Data Grid -Filtering -UI Component Description:
Status and Material always shown.•
Columns should be able to be sorted by the top.•
Columns should be customizable in what appears.•
Filter function added to column.•
Page size setting.•
Status and Material columns are always visible.•
Columns can be sorted by clicking on the column header.•
Users can customize which columns are displayed.•
Each column has a filter function.•Functional Requirements
Thursday, December 12, 2024 8:38 AM
   UXUI Feature Page 589    
Each column has a filter function.•
Users can set the page size for the grid.•
Implement sorting functionality for grid columns.•
Allow users to customize visible columns through a settings menu.•
Add filter inputs to each column header.•
Implement pagination with adjustable page size. Points: 7 •
Story ID: 4193
Title: Status Card -UI Component
Color coded.•
Number.•
Graphic.•
Status text.•
Navigation Action.•
Status cards are color -coded based on status. •
Each card displays a number, graphic, and status text.•
Cards include a navigation action (e.g., link or button).•
Design and implement a status card component.•
Apply color coding based on status.•
Include a number, graphic, and status text in each card.•
Add navigation functionality to each card. Points: 2 •
Story ID: 4194
Title: Plant UI -Implementation
Plants listed based on permissions from ARS.•
Navigation based on Plant selection to auto -populate the BOM UI. •
Plants are listed according to user permissions from ARS.•
Selecting a plant auto -populates the BOM UI with relevant data. •
Fetch and display plants based on user permissions from ARS.•
Implement logic to auto -populate BOM UI based on selected plant. Points: 5 •
Story ID: 4195
Title: Status UI -Implementation Status Card
Tile created for 5 existing statuses.•
Click event filter down BOM UI.•
Create tiles for 5 different statuses.•
Clicking on a tile filters the BOM UI based on the status.•
Design and implement status tiles.•
Add click event handling to filter BOM UI based on the selected status. Points: 4 •
Story ID: 4196
Title: BOM UI -Implementation Data Grid
Read method for Bill of Material.•
References new tables.•
Implement a read method to fetch BOM data.•
Ensure the data grid references new tables for BOM data.•
Develop a read method to retrieve BOM data.•
Update data grid to reference and display data from new tables.•
Story ID: 4197
Title: BomForge: App Bar/ Drawer/ Nav Menu
App bar displays on all pages.•
Hamburger icon activates Drawer component.•
Drawer component contains NavMenu to major pages (Home, Admin).•
NavMenu navigates properly to major pages.•
Alert Component real estate for future alert component.•
   UXUI Feature Page 590    
Alert Component real estate for future alert component.•
App bar is visible on all pages.•
Hamburger icon opens the Drawer component.•
Drawer contains navigation menu to Home and Admin pages.•
Navigation menu links work correctly.•
Space allocated for future alert component.•
Implement App bar and Drawer components.•
Ensure navigation menu links to major pages.•
Reserve space for future alert component.•
Story ID: 4198
Title: BomForge Alert -Investigation
Determine the best component available between Alerting or Snackbar component.•
Research and identify the most suitable component for alerts.•
Evaluate different alert components.•
Document findings and make a recommendation.•
Story ID: 4199
Title: BomForge Alert -UI Component
Ability to handle Normal, Info, Success, Warning, and Error messages.•
Implement an alert component that can display different types of messages (Normal, Info, Success, 
Warning, Error).•
Design and implement a versatile alert component.•
Ensure it can handle and display various message types.•
Story ID: 4200
Title: BomForge Alert -Implementation
Differentiate transaction process types (Material Updates, two users working concurrently vs. 
someone's read -only view).•
Implement alert functionality to differentiate between various transaction process types.•
Develop logic to handle different transaction process types.•
Integrate alert component to display appropriate messages based on transaction type. Points: 8 •
Admin Page
Story ID: 4204
Title: Process Log: Business Logic
Table Fields: Process, Transaction, TransactionCounter, Message, DateTime, User, Request, Response, 
ResponseTime.•
View, maintain, purge methods/endpoints.•
Implement table with specified fields.•
Develop methods/endpoints for viewing, maintaining, and purging logs.•
Create a database table with the specified fields.•
Implement backend logic for viewing, maintaining, and purging logs. Points: 10 •
Story ID: 4205
Title: Process Log: Chronicle Job for Purge
(Reference 1015 Recon Report)•
Python script to call endpoint.•
Develop a Python script to call the purge endpoint.•
Write a Python script that triggers the purge endpoint.•
Ensure the script runs as a scheduled job.•
Story ID: 4206
Title: Process Log: Implementation for PDM Guarantee
Logging occurs PDM Side.•
Logging on the BOM Portal Side.•
   UXUI Feature Page 591    
Logging on the BOM Portal Side.•
Ensure output goes to console.•
Call process log method to insert process log.•
Implement logging on both PDM and BOM Portal sides.•
Ensure logs are output to the console.•
Call the process log method to insert logs.•
Develop logging functionality on PDM and BOM Portal sides.•
Ensure logs are written to the console.•
Integrate process log method for log insertion. Points: 6 •
Story ID: 4207
Title: Process Log UI: Implementation Data Grid
Call the process log business logic method endpoint and load the data to the control.•
Implement a data grid that loads data from the process log endpoint.•
Develop a data grid UI component.•
Fetch and display data from the process log endpoint.•
Story ID: 4208
Title: Process Log UI -Misc functionality
Deferred for now.•
Button to show the JSON response and request data.•
Implement a button to display JSON response and request data.•
Add a button to the UI.•
Ensure it displays JSON response and request data when clicked. Points: Deferred •
Story ID: 4209
Title: Recipe Admin Module
Search Material by Plant and Material Number.•
Ability to mass move to Edit.•
Ability to mass refresh specs.•
Grid displaying: Plant, Material, Description, Version, Status, Owner.•
Implement search functionality by Plant and Material Number.•
Enable mass move to Edit and mass refresh specs.•
Display grid with specified columns.•
Develop search and grid display functionalities.•
Implement mass move and refresh features.•
Story ID: 4210
Title: Plant Config Module
Plant -specific selection.•
Ability to create Plant config based on existing plant.•
Can switch between poultry and prepared plant.•
Override formulation toggle.•
Standard type, Driver, and Use Global Scrap settings based on each BomType.•
Phantom Bom Notification Toggle.•
Ability to add, view, and refresh plant materials.•
Ability to view and refresh plant "Resources".•
Implement plant -specific selection and configuration creation. •
Enable switching between poultry and prepared plant.•
Add override formulation toggle and other settings.•
Implement functionality to add, view, and refresh plant materials and resources.•
Develop plant -specific selection and configuration functionalities. •
Implement toggles and settings.•
Add functionalities to manage plant materials and resources.•
Story ID: 4211
   UXUI Feature Page 592    
Story ID: 4211
Title: Global Scrap Module
Implement Global Scrap Module functionalities.•
Develop functionalities for the Global Scrap Module.•
Additional Stories
Story ID: EFI -2639
Title: UI Rough Drafts
As a BOM business stakeholder or BOM UI developer, I have a document presenting a clear vision for 
the functionality surfaced in the BOM Assembly UI, so that I have a tangible artifact demonstrating the 
application goals and can participate in the approval and development of the UI.•
Develop a comprehensive document outlining a clear vision for the BOM Assembly UI functionality.•
Present the document to stakeholders for approval and feedback.•
Gather and document user requirements, current pain points, and desired features.•
Create a vision document and present it to stakeholders.•
Save the document in a centralized repository.•
Story ID: Move to Phase 3
Title: Workflows for BOM Template, Type, Version, and Related Searches
Define and document workflows for BOM components, including templates, types, versions, and 
related searches, to ensure that all user interactions and dependencies within the BOM Portal are 
clearly outlined and standardized.•
Create detailed, documented workflows for each BOM component.•
Conduct a review session with stakeholders to validate workflows.•
Map and document workflows for BOM components.•
Organize review sessions with stakeholders.•
Save workflows in a centralized repository.•
Story ID: EFI -3108
Title: Okta Sign -In Integration in Blazor UI
As a BOM Portal User, I need to sign in through Okta to access new UIs so that my identity can be used 
to control access to sensitive information.•
Implement Okta sign -in functionality within the Blazor UI. •
Ensure secure sign -in and token handling. •
Validate integration with other components.•
Configure Okta within the Blazor application.•
Develop sign -in and sign -out user flows. •
Implement token handling and refresh mechanisms.•
Conduct thorough testing and save documentation.•
Story ID: Feature -Complete API Endpoint Implementations Supporting UI
Title: Feature -Complete API Endpoint Implementations Supporting UI
Develop and implement API endpoints to support the functionality of the BOM Portal’s UI. These 
endpoints will handle data processing and interactions needed for seamless front -end integration, 
ensuring that the UI can retrieve, update, and manage data efficiently.•
Implement API endpoints according to documented requirements.•
Perform integration testing with the front -end. •
Ensure endpoints meet performance and security standards.•
Define input/output structures and security protocols for each API endpoint.•
Implement and test endpoints.•
Collaborate with the front -end team for integration. •
Save API specifications and documentation. Points: 13 •
Story ID: EFI -3028
Title: Formulation Event/Status UI
   UXUI Feature Page 593    
As a BOM Portal user, I can see formulation status and event history in a category -searchable UI, so 
that I can understand changes, resolve business effects from poor statuses, and escalate if necessary.•
Implement a UI to display formulation status and event history.•
Support category -based searches and validation error display. •
Conduct user testing and gather feedback.•
Develop wireframes and mockups for the UI.•
Integrate with backend services for real -time data. •
Implement search and filtering functionalities.•
Conduct user testing and save documentation.•
Functional Requirements Outline
Home Page
Req ID: 4191
BRD ID: BRD -001
Requirement Name: Plant Select -UI Component
Requirement Description: Implement a dropdown component that displays all 
plants available to the user, showing the total number of BOMs next to each 
plant. Ensure grid items update based on the selected plant.
FR-001: Develop a dropdown to list all plants with BOM counts.
FR-002: Implement event handling to update grid items on plant selection. Req 
ID:4192
BRD ID: BRD -002
Requirement Name: Data Grid -Filtering -UI Component
Requirement Description: Create a data grid with always visible Status and 
Material columns, sortable columns, customizable column visibility, filter 
functionality, and adjustable page size.
FR-003: Ensure Status and Material columns are always visible.
FR-004: Implement sortable columns.
FR-005: Allow customization of visible columns.
FR-006: Add filter functionality to columns.
FR-007: Implement adjustable page size for the grid. Req ID: 4193
BRD ID: BRD -003
Requirement Name: Status Card -UI Component
Requirement Description: Design and implement color -coded status cards 
displaying a number, graphic, status text, and navigation action.
FR-008: Develop color -coded status cards.
FR-009: Include number, graphic, and status text in each card.
FR-010: Add navigation functionality to each card. Req ID: 4194
BRD ID: BRD -004
Requirement Name: Plant UI -Implementation
Requirement Description: List plants based on user permissions from ARS and 
   UXUI Feature Page 594    
Requirement Description: List plants based on user permissions from ARS and 
auto -populate BOM UI based on plant selection.
FR-011: Fetch and display plants based on user permissions.
FR-012: Auto -populate BOM UI based on selected plant. Req ID: 4195
BRD ID: BRD -005
Requirement Name: Status UI -Implementation Status Card
Requirement Description: Create tiles for 5 existing statuses and implement click 
event to filter BOM UI based on status.
FR-013: Develop tiles for 5 statuses.
FR-014: Implement click event to filter BOM UI based on status. Req ID: 4196
BRD ID: BRD -006
Requirement Name: BOM UI -Implementation Data Grid
Requirement Description: Implement a read method for Bill of Material and 
reference new tables.
FR-015: Develop a read method to fetch BOM data.
FR-016: Update data grid to reference new tables. Req ID: 4197
BRD ID: BRD -007
Requirement Name: BomForge: App Bar/ Drawer/ Nav Menu
Requirement Description: Implement an app bar, drawer component with a 
navigation menu to major pages, and reserve space for an alert component.
FR-017: Develop an app bar visible on all pages.
FR-018: Implement a drawer component with a navigation menu.
FR-019: Ensure navigation menu links to major pages.
FR-020: Reserve space for a future alert component. Req ID: 4198
BRD ID: BRD -008
Requirement Name: BomForge Alert -Investigation
Requirement Description: Determine the best component available between 
Alerting or Snackbar component.
FR-021: Research and identify the most suitable alert component. Req ID: 4199
BRD ID: BRD -009
Requirement Name: BomForge Alert -UI Component
Requirement Description: Implement an alert component that can handle 
Normal, Info, Success, Warning, and Error messages.
FR-022: Develop an alert component for various message types. Req ID: 4200
BRD ID: BRD -010
Requirement Name: BomForge Alert -Implementation
Requirement Description: Differentiate transaction process types and implement 
alert functionality accordingly.
FR-023: Implement logic to handle different transaction process types.
FR-024: Integrate alert component to display appropriate messages.
Admin Page
Req ID: 4204
BRD ID: BRD -011
   UXUI Feature Page 595    
BRD ID: BRD -011
Requirement Name: Process Log: Business Logic
Requirement Description: Implement table fields and methods/endpoints for viewing, maintaining, and 
purging logs.
FR-025: Create a database table with specified fields.
FR-026: Develop methods/endpoints for viewing, maintaining, and purging logs. Req ID: 4205
BRD ID: BRD -012
Requirement Name: Process Log: Chronicle Job for Purge
Requirement Description: Develop a Python script to call the purge endpoint.
FR-027: Write a Python script to trigger the purge endpoint. Req ID: 4206
BRD ID: BRD -013
Requirement Name: Process Log: Implementation for PDM Guarantee
Requirement Description: Implement logging on both PDM and BOM Portal sides, ensuring logs are output 
to the console and inserted into the process log.
FR-028: Develop logging functionality on PDM and BOM Portal sides.
FR-029: Ensure logs are written to the console.
FR-030: Integrate process log method for log insertion. Req ID: 4207
BRD ID: BRD -014
Requirement Name: Process Log UI: Implementation Data Grid
Requirement Description: Implement a data grid that loads data from the process log endpoint.
FR-031: Develop a data grid UI component.
FR-032: Fetch and display data from the process log endpoint. Req ID: 4208
BRD ID: BRD -015
Requirement Name: Process Log UI -Misc functionality
Requirement Description: Deferred for now. Implement a button to display JSON response and request 
data.
FR-033: Add a button to display JSON response and request data. Req ID: 4209
BRD ID: BRD -016
Requirement Name: Recipe Admin Module
Requirement Description: Deferred for now. Implement search functionality by Plant and Material Number, 
mass move to Edit, mass refresh specs, and display grid with specified columns.
FR-034: Develop search and grid display functionalities.
FR-035: Implement mass move and refresh features. Req ID: 4210
BRD ID: BRD -017
Requirement Name: Plant Config Module
Requirement Description: Deferred for now. Implement plant -specific selection, configuration creation, and 
management functionalities.
FR-036: Develop plant -specific selection and configuration functionalities.
FR-037: Implement toggles and settings.
FR-038: Add functionalities to manage plant materials and resources. Req ID: 4211
BRD ID: BRD -018
Requirement Name: Global Scrap Module
Requirement Description: Deferred for now. Implement Global Scrap Module functionalities.
FR-039: Develop functionalities for the Global Scrap Module.
Additional Stories
Req ID: EFI-2639
BRD ID: BRD -019
Requirement Name: UI Rough Drafts
Requirement Description: Develop a comprehensive document outlining a clear vision for the BOM 
Assembly UI functionality and present it to stakeholders for approval and feedback.
FR-040: Gather and document user requirements, current pain points, and desired features.
FR-041: Create a vision document and present it to stakeholders.
FR-042: Save the document in a centralized repository. Req ID: Move to Phase 3
BRD ID: BRD -020
Requirement Name: Workflows for BOM Template, Type, Version, and Related Searches
Requirement Description: Define and document workflows for BOM components to ensure all user 
   UXUI Feature Page 596    
Requirement Description: Define and document workflows for BOM components to ensure all user 
interactions and dependencies are clearly outlined and standardized.
FR-043: Map and document workflows for BOM components.
FR-044: Organize review sessions with stakeholders.
FR-045: Save workflows in a centralized repository. Req ID: EFI-3108
BRD ID: BRD -021
Requirement Name: Okta Sign -In Integration in Blazor UI
Requirement Description: Implement Okta sign -in functionality within the Blazor UI to enable secure user 
access to sensitive information.
FR-046: Configure Okta within the Blazor application.
FR-047: Develop sign -in and sign -out user flows.
FR-048: Implement token handling and refresh mechanisms.
FR-049: Conduct thorough testing and save documentation. Req ID: Feature -Complete API Endpoint 
Implementations Supporting UI
BRD ID: BRD -022
Requirement Name: Feature -Complete API Endpoint Implementations Supporting UI
Requirement Description: Develop and implement API endpoints to support BOM Portal’s UI functionality, 
ensuring efficient data processing and interactions.
FR-050: Define input/output structures and security protocols for each API endpoint.
FR-051: Implement and test endpoints.
FR-052: Collaborate with the front -end team for integration.
FR-053: Save API specifications and documentation. Req ID: EFI-3028
BRD ID: BRD -023
Requirement Name: Formulation Event/Status UI
Requirement Description: Implement a UI to display formulation status and event history with category -
based searches and validation error display.
FR-054: Develop wireframes and mockups for the UI.
FR-055: Integrate with backend services for real -time data.
FR-056: Implement search and filtering functionalities.
FR-057: Conduct user testing and save documentation.
   UXUI Feature Page 597    
Open API Get Response Contract with YAML
Context: Master Formulation
PDM is SAAS Product Data Management
Restricted to internally that’s why SAAS 
PDM is composed on different modules
General Specification management
GSM accessible through interface we have on pdm
Pdm -dev.tyson.com/portal
Ledger on what has been officialized to be 
Trade specification search 
Follows a certain order to rigorously verify how it works
Table with different statuses, all different formulation versions
Spec # and status for that material, Spec name material
Trade units have all of the formulation data and references
Like the ledger with hyperlinks in terms of processing, terms, and components. 
PDM needs to ensure only official values are sent to bom portal, 
We need officiail in matterial master data in both SAP and 
Both trade in and consumer unit
Trade unit is above the consumer unit in the hierarchy
The formula is atached to the consumer unit. 
Formula is the process and how the material is going to be built, the sequence of the recipe. 
This is everythign we want to obtain in PDM some of the
We want to see this for our official product payload is like 7k lines the condensed version is 200. : 
(condensed version)
Bom is based out of formulation
Formulation is standardized way to produce bill of materials 
The recipe is the formulation because it tells you how much egg, yolk, whatever your using and whole 
qty of yields which makes a certain quality of hotcakes 
Boms enter between the hotcakes and the bake. 
Boms are batches of production that need to be inspected on a costing level. 
A bom must always contain a formulation. 
Recipe is operation proccess like the steps 
A bom is the costing of the goods that go into creation of formulation. How much does each cost how 
much do I use?
Recipe is just extraction of process
Recipe must contain one step. 
Importance of having pdm always in sync with Bill of Materials. 
12/5 PDM Spec Review
Thursday, December 05, 2024 1:31 PM
   UXUI Feature Page 598    
Driver bom drives the children bom we want to add AOP BOM on top of finance, prod, engineering. 
Finance bom first.  
Highest granularity is corporate formula or pdm data
Then bom builds template bom driver non customizad constrained to formula layer. 
So we instead have formulation replica.
Recipe to bom migration. 
Replication is reference of data bein taken from authoritative source. 
H wants to check the data that is aquired through the odata dbpoa
Which of those fields exist within any of those two tables. Just to know which fields 
   UXUI Feature Page 599    
Angelica, David, Rich
Bom template lives at plant levelUsability Testing Session
Thursday, July 24, 2025 2:00 PM
   UXUI Feature Page 600    
User Training and Documentation: Guides and manuals for 
training users on the new functionalities.
Wednesday, November 13, 2024 2:19 PM
   UXUI Feature Page 601    
Project Plan: Comprehensive Enhancements for BOM Portal and Dashboard
Project Name : BOM Portal Enhancements Project
Project Manager : [Project Manager's Name]
Start Date : [Insert Start Date]
Estimated Completion Date : [Insert Estimated Completion Date]
Prepared By : [Greg Homstad/Team]
Version : 1.0
Date : [Insert Date]
1. Project Overview
This project aims to implement various enhancements to the BOM Portal and Dashboard, focusing on 
improved security, user experience, workflow efficiency, change tracking, and data management.
2. Project Objectives
Integrate secure Okta sign -in and identity access management. •
Implement mass operation capabilities for BOMs.•
Enhance the user interface for better navigation.•
Introduce change -tracking features and alert notifications. •
Restore material and resource syncing functionality.•
Improve the Engineering Change Management (ECM) process.•
Add a dedicated section for processing aid management.•
3. Scope of Work
In-Scope :
Okta sign -in integration. •
User role and permission management.•
Mass termination and approval functionality.•
UI navigation improvements.•
Comprehensive change log implementation.•
Alert system for key status changes.•
Material and resource syncing restoration.•
ECM process improvements.•
Dedicated processing aid management section.••
Out-of-Scope :
Major overhauls of unrelated modules.•
Non -BOM -specific enhancements. ••
4. Milestones and Key Deliverables
Milestone Deliverable Start 
DateEnd Date
Project Kickoff Initial project meetings and 
stakeholder alignment[Date] [Date]
Requirement Gathering Completion of BRD and FRD [Date] [Date]
Okta Sign -In Integration Secure login and IAM features [Date] [Date]
UI Mockups and Navigation Redesign Approved UI mockups and improved 
navigation[Date] [Date]
Mass Operation Features Mass termination and approval 
functionality[Date] [Date]
Change Log Implementation Comprehensive change log system [Date] [Date]Project Plan
Wednesday, November 13, 2024 9:05 AM
   UXUI Feature Page 602    
Change Log Implementation Comprehensive change log system [Date] [Date]
Material and Resource Syncing Restored syncing functionality [Date] [Date]
Alert System Development Notification system for key status 
changes[Date] [Date]
ECM Process Improvement Enhanced ECM updates and BOM 
stability[Date] [Date]
Processing Aid Section Dedicated management section for 
processing aids[Date] [Date]
User Acceptance Testing (UAT) Final round of testing and 
stakeholder approval[Date] [Date]
Deployment and Go -Live Full release of enhancements [Date] [Date]
5. Resource Allocation
Resource Role Responsibility
Project Manager Lead Oversee project execution and timeline
Business Analyst Analyst Requirement gathering and documentation
UI/UX Designer Designer Create and refine UI mockups
Developers Software Engineers Implement functional requirements
QA Team Testers Conduct testing and validation
IT Security Team Security Specialists Integrate Okta and IAM systems
Stakeholders Reviewers Approve project deliverables
6. Risk Management
Risk Likelihood Impact Mitigation Strategy
Delayed stakeholder feedback Medium High Schedule regular review meetings
Integration issues with Okta High High Conduct early testing and involve IT 
security
Performance issues during mass 
operationsMedium Medium Implement stress testing and performance 
tuning
User resistance to UI changes Low Medium Provide training and gather feedback early
7. Testing and Quality Assurance
Unit Testing : Conducted by developers after implementation of each feature. •
Integration Testing : Ensures that new features integrate seamlessly with existing systems. •
User Acceptance Testing (UAT) : Stakeholders test the final product in a controlled environment. •
Performance Testing : Validates that the system performs optimally under load. •
8. Communication Plan
Weekly Status Meetings : Progress updates with the project team. •
Bi-Weekly Stakeholder Meetings : Updates and feedback from stakeholders. •
Ad-Hoc Communications : As needed for urgent matters. •
Project Documentation : Shared via [Collaboration Tool] for transparency. •
9. Deployment Plan
Pre-Deployment Review : Ensure all acceptance criteria are met. •
Deployment Phases :
Phase 1 : Roll out key security features (Okta and IAM). •
Phase 2 : Deploy UI/UX enhancements and mass operations. •
Phase 3 : Implement change tracking, alert system, and syncing. •
Phase 4 : Full deployment and user onboarding. ••
Post -Deployment Monitoring : Monitor for any issues and collect user feedback. •
   UXUI Feature Page 603    
Post -Deployment Monitoring : Monitor for any issues and collect user feedback. •
10. Project Closure
Final Review : Evaluate project success and gather lessons learned. •
Documentation and Handover : Complete project documentation and hand over to maintenance 
teams.•
Sign -Off: Approval from stakeholders and project closure report. •
Prepared By : [Greg Homstad/Team]
Date : [Insert Date]
Approved By : [Name]
Date : [Insert Date]
   UXUI Feature Page 604    
Thursday deadline. 
EOD Thursday 
Engagement with Business Team for Requirements Gathering
Objective : To understand the day -to-day workflows, processes, and specific needs of end -users 
(e.g., Doug in development, Angelica in field side plant control, and production line staff).•
Actions :
Schedule two 1 -hour sessions with key stakeholders. •
Prepare targeted questions about current workflows and expectations from the new 
system, especially in relation to the BOM portal.•
Ask hypothetical questions, like “If the BOM portal didn’t exist, what would you ideally want 
it to accomplish?” to gather forward -thinking insights.••
2. Collaborate with UX Team
Objective : To ensure user -centered design practices align with the business’s expectations and 
technical requirements.•
Actions :
Review the Statement of Work (SOW) for any preliminary insights on UX deliverables and 
engagement.•
Set up office hours (Tuesdays and Thursdays) for regular interaction and support.•
Organize a “walk -a-mile” session where IT members shadow business users to experience 
their workflows firsthand.•
Verify UX team needs from the SOW and establish the extent of their engagement in 
development activities.••
3. Assess Blazor as a Technology Choice
Objective : Understand and prepare for potential challenges associated with implementing Blazor for the 
first time, especially given the team's limited experience with it.•
Pros of Blazor :
.NET Integration : Native to .NET, which could streamline integration with other .NET -based 
systems.•
Single Language Development : Enables C# for both front -end and back -end, reducing the need to 
juggle multiple languages.•
Microsoft Support : Provides dedicated Microsoft support, which may simplify troubleshooting 
and long -term maintenance.•
Cons Compared to React/Angular :
Learning Curve : Limited team experience and industry knowledge base could delay delivery. •
Community and Resources : While Blazor is open -source, it has a smaller community and 
resource pool than more established technologies like React or Angular.•
Dependence on Microsoft Ecosystem : Tied more closely to Microsoft tools, which may limit 
flexibility.•
Next Steps :
Discuss with Rohi, who has Angular experience, whether it would be beneficial for the 
team to start prioritizing learning Blazor.•
Engage Zach, who has developed the formulation viewer in Blazor, to offer insights or 
conduct knowledge -sharing sessions.•
Consider assigning team members to start with small Blazor tasks to build fluency.•••
4. Development and Testing Roadmap
Objective : To ensure a smooth development process with clear roles, responsibilities, and 
expectations.•
Actions :
Confirm that the UX team can actively engage in development if specified in the SOW.•
Define a collaborative plan with Microsoft’s development team, particularly in areas 
where Microsoft IPs are integrated or if specialized Blazor knowledge is required.•
Plan for ongoing alignment with UX and development teams to ensure the project 
stays on track with deliverables and quality expectations.••
5. Schedule an Onsite Meeting and Continuous Follow -up
Objective : Maintain ongoing collaboration and address any emerging issues in real -time. •
Actions :
Schedule an onsite meeting for the following week if the SOW is completed and 
shared with the UX team.•
Regularly check the progress and adjust schedules as needed.•••
Schedule Sessions
Identify and invite stakeholders for the business requirements and UX design sessions.•
Propose dates and times for the sessions, ensuring all key participants can attend.•
Prepare agenda
Draft an agenda for each session, outlining key discussion points such as:•
High -level goals for the BOM Portal•
User needs and expectations•
Key metrics for success•
Gather Preliminary Data
Collect existing documentation related to BOM Portal requirements.•
Review user feedback and insights from previous versions or related projects.•
Conduct Sessions
Facilitate the scheduled sessions, ensuring a collaborative environment for discussion.•
Use visual aids (e.g., whiteboards, sticky notes, digital tools) to capture ideas and feedback in real time.•
Document Requirements
Record business requirements and user expectations discussed during the sessions.•
Ensure all stakeholders have the opportunity to contribute to the documentation.•
Review and Revise
Compile the documented requirements and send them to participants for review.•
Allow time for stakeholders to provide feedback and make revisions as necessary.•
Obtain Approval
Finalize the business requirements document.•
Schedule a follow -up meeting to present the final document and obtain formal approval from 
stakeholders.•
Distribute Final Document
Share the approved business requirements and user expectations document with all relevant team 
members.•
Store the document in a shared location for future reference.•
Follow -Up Actions
Identify any further actions or projects based on the approved requirements.•
Schedule future check -ins to ensure alignment as development progresses. •Agenda for the First Session
Introductions
Briefly introduce all participants and their roles. (Greg -Business Analyst; Rohi –Developer) •
Establish ground rules for communication and collaboration.•
Objectives of the Session
Define the purpose of the session: to gather insights on high -level goals and user needs for the 
BOM Portal.•
Outline expected outcomes, such as documenting initial requirements and understanding user 
expectations.•
Overview of the BOM Portal
Present a brief overview of the current state of the BOM Portal (if applicable) and its purpose.•
Discuss any known issues or areas for improvement based on previous feedback.•
High -Level Goals
Facilitate a discussion on the overarching goals for the BOM Portal. Consider questions like:
What are the primary objectives of the BOM Portal?○
What business problems does the portal aim to solve?○
How will success be measured?○•
User Personas
Identify and discuss the various user personas that will interact with the BOM Portal. For each 
persona, consider:
Roles and responsibilities○
Typical tasks or workflows they will engage in○
Challenges they face in their current processes○•
User Needs and Expectations
Gather input on specific user needs and expectations for the BOM Portal. Discuss:
What features are essential for users?○
Are there any critical functionalities that must be included?○
What are users’ pain points with existing tools or processes?○•
Prioritization of Requirements
Begin a preliminary discussion on the prioritization of the identified needs and expectations. Use 
techniques such as:
Voting on features○
Discussing which needs align best with the high -level goals ○•
Feedback Mechanisms
Discuss how feedback will be gathered throughout the project, including:
Future sessions○
Surveys or user testing○•
Next Steps
Outline the next steps after this session, including:
Follow -up sessions to refine requirements ○
Timelines for documentation and approval○•
Q&A and Open Discussion
Allow time for participants to ask questions and provide additional thoughts or insights.•
Encourage open dialogue to ensure all voices are heard.•
Conclusion
Summarize the key points discussed and clarify any outstanding items.•
Thank participants for their contributions and emphasize the importance of their input in shaping 
the BOM Portal.•Have a session with rohi to gether insights on high -level goals and user needs for bom portal
Outline user expectations. 
Current state of bom portal
Step -by-Step Guide to Begin the First Session
Set a Collaborative Tone
Start with a brief icebreaker to help participants feel comfortable sharing their thoughts and ideas.•
Emphasize that this is a brainstorming session and that all input is valuable.•
Define the Purpose of the BOM Portal
Ask the group to define what they believe the BOM Portal should achieve. Prompt with 
questions like:
What problems does this portal need to solve?•
Why is it important to have this portal for our organization?••
Collect initial thoughts without filtering or critiquing ideas —focus on gathering insights. •
Identify Stakeholders and User Groups
Discuss who the primary users of the BOM Portal will be. Consider various roles and 
departments that may interact with it.•
Create a list of stakeholders who will have input or influence over the portal's 
development.•
Gather Preliminary Input
Use a whiteboard or a collaborative digital tool (like Miro or Google Jamboard) 
to collect input from participants on:
Key features they think the portal should have•
Challenges they currently face in their workflows that the portal could 
address•
Discuss Current Challenges
Facilitate a discussion on existing processes and tools. Ask questions 
like:
What works well in your current processes?•
What are the major pain points or bottlenecks?••
Identify common themes or issues that participants raise.•
Introduce High -Level Goals
After gathering input, introduce some initial high -level goals 
for the BOM Portal based on the discussions. For example:
Improve data accuracy and accessibility•
Streamline workflows for BOM management•
Enhance collaboration between departments•
Create User Personas (if applicable)
If time allows, start sketching out user personas 
based on the stakeholders discussed. Ask 
participants to describe:
What tasks these users will perform•
What information they need•
Any specific requirements they might have•
Outline Next Steps
Summarize the key points discussed 
and identify the next steps:
Schedule follow -up sessions to 
refine requirements based on 
this initial discussion.•
Assign tasks to team members 
to further research specific 
areas or gather additional input 
from other stakeholders.•
Collect Feedback and Close
Encourage participants to 
provide feedback on the 
session format and 
content. Ask them what 
other information or 
resources would be 
helpful for future 
discussions.•
Thank everyone for their 
participation and 
emphasize that their 
contributions are 
essential to the project's 
success.•1.•1.•1.•1.1.•1.1.1.1.
Here's an expanded version of each point, providing more context and prompting stakeholders to think 
in detail about their needs and goals.
User Needs
To better understand how you use the BOM Portal, we would like to discuss the specific tasks and 
workflows that are most important to your role. This will help us identify key features to prioritize. Some 
guiding questions include:
Primary Tasks : What are the main tasks you use the BOM Portal for? Are there repetitive tasks 
that could be streamlined or automated?•
Current Workflows : How do you currently interact with the BOM Portal throughout your •EFI-1001: Assembly Business Requirements and UX Design 
Sessions
Wednesday, October 30, 2024 2:44 PM
   UXUI Feature Page 605    
Current Workflows : How do you currently interact with the BOM Portal throughout your 
workflow? Are there particular steps that are time -consuming, difficult, or redundant?•
Pain Points : Are there any specific challenges or frustrations you experience when using the BOM 
Portal? (e.g., navigation issues, lack of necessary data, slow load times, etc.)•
Improvements : What are some enhancements you believe could improve your daily operations 
within the BOM Portal? Are there features you feel are missing or underutilized?•
By identifying these needs, we aim to create a more intuitive interface that saves time and reduces 
friction.
Key Metrics
To ensure the dashboard provides valuable insights, we’d like to understand which metrics or KPIs are 
most critical for your work. Please consider:
High -Value Metrics : What specific data points or metrics do you frequently monitor? For instance, 
do you track BOM version counts, edit frequencies, error tracking, or completion times?•
Dashboard Capabilities : Would you find it beneficial to have certain data visualized in graphs, 
charts, or tables? Are there key metrics that need to be updated in real -time?•
Alerting and Notifications : Are there any metrics where alerts or notifications would be valuable? •
Historical Data and Trends : Is tracking historical data to observe trends over time something you 
need? If so, which trends would be most useful for you?•
The insights from this discussion will guide us in designing a dashboard that is both informative and 
actionable, supporting your ability to make data -driven decisions.
Strategic Goals
We aim to align the BOM Portal and dashboard improvements with our larger strategic goals to ensure 
they add measurable value to your operations. To that end:
Operational Efficiency : Are there specific ways the BOM Portal and dashboard could enhance 
efficiency or simplify processes? For example, would better search functionality, faster data 
retrieval, or more customization options support your work?•
Supporting Business Objectives : How can the portal and dashboard be designed to help you 
achieve key business objectives? Are there specific targets or outcomes (e.g., reducing error rates, 
increasing data accuracy) that you would like this project to address?•
Growth and Scalability : Are there any anticipated changes in your department or industry that 
may affect your use of the BOM Portal? For instance, are there plans to increase the number of 
users, expand data sources, or integrate with additional systems?•
 our answers will help us create a solution that not only meets today’s needs but also scales with future 
growth and aligns with our overarching strategic vision.
Meeting Details
We are planning to schedule a 60 -minute session to discuss these points in detail. Here are the 
proposed options for date and time:
Option 1 : [Insert Date and Time] •
Option 2 : [Insert Date and Time] •
Location : [Location/Meeting Link]
Please confirm which option works best for you, or let us know if there’s a more convenient time.  our 
feedback in this session will be vital to guiding our project goals, and we greatly value your input.
This expanded outline gives stakeholders specific topics to consider, which will help generate more 
targeted feedback during the meeting.
   UXUI Feature Page 606    
Preparation for Call with Rohi, Andre, Ben, and UX Team
1. Overview of the BOM Portal
Purpose: Clearly articulate the primary goals and functions of the BOM Portal. •
Current Version: Be ready to provide a demo or screenshots of the existing UI. •
2. Usage Details
User Groups: Identify the main users and stakeholders of the portal. •
Usage Scenarios: Prepare examples of how the portal is currently used in workflows. •
Key Features: Highlight existing features that are working well and any pain points. •
3. Feedback and Changes
Anticipate Questions: Be ready to discuss potential changes or improvements to the UI based on 
user feedback.•
Documentation: Have any relevant documentation or user feedback ready to share with the UX 
team.•
4. Involve Andre
His Role: Outline why having Andre on the call will be beneficial (e.g., his insights into the 
technical aspects, user requirements, etc.).•
5. Prepare Questions for UX Team
What specific aspects of the app do they want to focus on?•
Are there any initial thoughts on the current UI and areas for improvement?•
What information or resources do they need from us to proceed?•
6. Logistics
Schedule: Confirm the date and time of the call. •
Platform: Decide on the communication platform (Zoom, Teams, etc.) and share the invite with all 
participants.•
Hey Rohi,
I hope you’re doing well! As we prepare for our call with the UX team, I wanted to touch base and make 
sure we’re on the same page. Where you able to get with  ohn at all and get any of your questions 
answered?
It might be helpful to go over key points like the BOM Portal’s purpose, current usage, and any 
questions we anticipate from the UX team. I think it would be helpful if Andre is on this call as well as he 
can give the UX team a more thorough overview of BOM portals current design. 
Do you have any specific areas you’d like to address? 
Would you like to set up a call to go over this beforehand or should we just get in on a call with the UX 
team and get some introduction conversations going. let me know what you think works best!
Let me know if there’s anything else you’d like to discuss before we connect!Hey Rohi,
I hope you’re doing well today! As we prepare for our calls with the UX team, I wanted to touch base to 
ensure we’re on the same page. Were you able to connect with  ohn and get any of your questions 
answered?
I think it would be helpful to discuss key points like the BOM Portal’s purpose, current usage, and any 
questions we anticipate from the UX team. Additionally, having Andre on the call would be beneficial, as 
he can provide a more thorough overview of the BOM Portal's current design. Ben said he would also 
like to be on the call with the UX team. 
Do you have any specific areas you’d like to address?
Would you prefer to set up a call to go over this beforehand, or should we dive right into the discussion 
with the UX team? Let me know what you think works best!Initiate a Friendly Introduction : Reach out informally to the UX team via email or in person. Introduce 
myself, explain my role in the project, and express excitement about working with them. I’d share that, 
even without a formal SOW, I’m keen to align with their expertise to improve the application’s usability.•
Present the Project's Goals and Context : Provide an overview of the application, including high -level 
objectives, target users, and any specific challenges or design pain points. This helps UX understand the 
context and how their input could enhance the user experience, even in the early stages.•
Ask for High -Level Input : Request a brainstorming or informal discovery session to gather initial UX 
perspectives. During this meeting, I’d invite them to share feedback or design considerations based on 
what they know and any prior projects they’ve done. This gives them a sense of involvement without 
formal requirements.•
Share Data and Insights : If available, present data such as user feedback, analytics, or any relevant 
research. Highlighting any current issues users face can help the UX team start conceptualizing ways to 
improve the experience, even without detailed project documentation.•
Prioritize User Flows and Pain Points : Identify specific user flows or challenges that could benefit from 
UX guidance.  or example, “Our users struggle with navigation here” or “This workflow could use 
improvement to boost conversion rates.” Specific questions give UX something concrete to focus on, 
allowing them to contribute meaningfully.•
Request Prototypes or Low -Fidelity Mockups : Since there’s no SOW, I’d avoid asking for polished 
designs. Instead, I’d see if they could provide sketches, low -fidelity wireframes, or ideas that illustrate 
potential solutions, making it clear that initial concepts are sufficient.•
Discuss Potential Next Steps and Future Collaboration : Mention that this engagement can serve as a 
foundation for formalizing UX’s involvement once the project gains further clarity. If possible, offer to 
advocate for an SOW or more structured involvement on their behalf.•
Establish Regular Check -Ins: To keep things moving, I’d set up periodic check -ins to discuss user 
feedback or development updates. This helps UX stay in the loop and continue contributing insights that 
align with our evolving goals.•Action Items
Wednesday, October 30, 2024 3:27 PM
   UXUI Feature Page 607    
Current BOM Portal Page, Recipe Grid view,
CORP Step is primary node or component
The nodes are the component of the formulation
Corporate node. When we gain more comploexity in bill of materials we see more links in the nodes 
Recipe Used By tab: Shows all materials that the recipe is used by or  relationships a bom may have
All the nodes together make up a formulation
Graph that shows multiple nodes and relationships they have, coloring code for these
Green = published
Orange = costing
Blue = edit
Yellow = Working
Red = deleted. 
White dotted outline = corporate step
Black = plain step
What is a phantom, an inventory point that consist of list of components, condensed by single 
material. It’s a category of 1/15/2025
Wednesday, January 15, 2025 2:01 PM
   UXUI Feature Page 608    
Discussing dataset and the extension of data that is needed and required in the powerbi report
We need to understand what the business is expecting
2 stages
First Question –do we know the granularity of the data that's required from the reconciliation
What type of reconciliation is needed? 
Ultimately we need published boms that are effective in SAP we need the BOM's that have and 
end date of 31 -12-9999. Scan entire bill of material and start comparing with SAP. Need to 
consider second stage, once targeted bill of materials against SAP in BOM Portal. That will give the 
business an entire view of bom maintenance and each bill of materials components that compose 
even if its redundant. WE need to ensure for every bom all the components and seconds as well 
are the same between BOM P and SAP. Currently the database is so incosistent. 
Try to inspect a bill of material and its components and fields for each of them they are completely 
desynchronized or misaligned with what the interface shows. 
Which tables are affected in SAP in BOM Portal
What is the visibility in GCP –on demand request vs near real time request. 
Is there data staged or model in a hub plug into GCP and pull from there. 
Is that sufficient for the ask? How long will it take? 
Confirmation on Kent Coffman, someone on our team can help with analytics. 
A spec change is a formulation update 
Stko stop stas mastSAP Reconciliation 1/30/2025
Thursday, January 30, 2025 2:46 PM
   UXUI Feature Page 609    
Current BOM Portal Page, Recipe Grid view,
CORP Step is primary node or component
The nodes are the component of the formulation
Corporate node. When we gain more comploexity in bill of materials we see more links in the nodes 
Recipe Used By tab: Shows all materials that the recipe is used by or  relationships a bom may have
All the nodes together make up a formulation
Graph that shows multiple nodes and relationships they have, coloring code for these
Green = published
Orange = costing
Blue = edit
Yellow = Working
Red = deleted. 
White dotted outline = corporate step
Black = plain step
What is a phantom, an inventory point that consist of list of components, condensed by single 
material. It’s a category of 1/15/2025
Wednesday, January 15, 2025 2:01 PM
   UXUI Feature Page 610    
Can you describe your role and how you use the BOM Portal in your daily tasks?
Head of costing services, builds and maintains BOM financea.
Using bom portal for 10 yearsb.
Picking up tickets setting up BOMs updating new boms
CRUD –finance environment main
Walk us through a spec change
Bom Structure from finance to production should be equal, currently some BOM's in rework are not 
synced 
BOM's Deleting from BOM Portal with no reason and they have to recloning plus button under bom 
types on recipe grid view
Creation of additional version will create next version of step components 
Spec change to come through, no way to reattach version 0004 system routes to version 0001
Creation of new BOMs can be implemented for years to come 
One version of a BOM should be enough have they ever had to revert back to a previous version?  Each 
version is specific to a production line. Too many versions, which to pick. Confusion, no way to 
reconnect versions, reattatches 00001 version automatically. Recloning the system
Main disconnect of finance and production boms, we need to implement a solution to make it to where 
production bom steps or uncheck certain inventory pieces without messing with finance BOMs. 
Is there a reason for being able to move nodes or steps on the datagrid? 
What do the colors mean going from step to step User Interviews –Angelica
Monday, January 27, 2025 9:46 AM
   UXUI Feature Page 611    
Export feature on plant select or plant grid that allows for more information than whats on resource 
report
Create an automation to allow David to easily collect and compare 
Figure out recon process to automate comparing BOM to SAP 
Add more information to resource report that’s on the 
No way to expand single column  in plant data grid 
Why it happened when it happened, we need more logging for spec changes and other tasks
Revision history what changes prior to publishing
Figure out what the lines between different step nodes mean
We are going to be making reports on a power bi standpoint going forwardUser Interviews –David Sell
Tuesday, January 28, 2025 9:44 AM
   UXUI Feature Page 612    
Project Owner Doug Wolfe
How much do we know of the current BOM system? 
More consistency of the Data flows between systems.
User experience wants to see if there's any additional functionality
Doug wants to make sure all the current action functionalities is still working in mass from the 
homescreen
A link to the NPD would be nice to get from GSM. Is there a way that the api can 
Seamless data connection between systems
When it times out improve error notifications for when it times out and why
The colors of nodes should only be changed ONLY when something happens no false positives. 
The save button that pops up doesn’t really serve any additional functionality
Changing arrows for the lines between step nodes
Run recon report item needs to be removed recon report report needs to be removed
Dougs overall assesment of bom portal was that he has no major issues or pain points outside of 
functionality. Currently he likes the look and feel and wants to make sure we retain functionality.
Doug utilizes the plant nav menu on the left to visually see what the statuses are of the plants he has 
access to. User Interviews –Doug Wolfe
Wednesday, January 29, 2025 3:03 PM
   UXUI Feature Page 613    
Gain insight on how the user interacts with the current system
Walkthrough of users current use of the system
Identify pain points and problems that can be approved on in this Phase 
Geof Schroeder -SR manager costing center of excellence
Support and management of BOM Portal 
Supporting Doug and plant locations 
Investigate troubleshoot and work with IT for support. 
Really want SAP and BOM Reconciliation
How do you utilize reporting tools within bom portal if at all? What data or information are you 
currently looking at to make some of these decisions or to realize that something is going wrong 
We really need to keep the recipe data view the same  bom formulation page
What is the process of making a process order. 
Recipe Detail Report
Reporting -BOM and SAP, possibly do away with the report feature built into bom portal and turn to 
power bI reports instead
Dissasembly
Maybe leave the cutlist the same just update it (Dissasemble the plant)
Process order in the plant 
Override button could use a pop up 
Editing shouldn’t happen until it is saved or until something is selected. User Interviews -Geof Schroeder 
Thursday, January 30, 2025 9:57 AM
   UXUI Feature Page 614    
part of my role is to train and support production planning and material requirements planning at our 
plants, which also includes training and support of BOM Portal at these locations.
Gain insight on how the user interacts with the current system
Walkthrough of users current use of the system
Identify pain points and problems that can be approved on in this Phase 
Boms not being correct on production side
Support for Plant User/Training
Are there any changes with the UX/UI
Implement a loading screen instead of blank white screen
Training Right to left status cards for plants
Make the Recipe Errors report on the right side Selectable so that user can copy and paste instead of 
taking screenshot
Make it clear what different colors made in the recipe yield structurue
Recipe Errors loading screen for when recipe is selected from data grid
Data grid make better by adding column sizing 
Component Search –Something that highlights what component is in error. Make it filterable between 
edit, etc.within recipe grid view
Add logging to Edit status to show what was changed when material is selected
Make fields more clear Update User to know what is happening/happened. 
Is there a way to know what is an alternate or not. 
Primary components are light blue
Alternate material is dark blue 
Spec changes history should be sorted on BOMP next to plant data grid. 
Additional Information on grid
Make versions match production 3031 –0001 
Delete = bom portal
Terminate = Bom & SAP 
Functionality Why cant we delete, more logging, User Interviews Rich O'Connor
Monday, February 03, 2025 9:58 AM
   UXUI Feature Page 615    
part of my role is to train and support production planning and material requirements planning at our 
plants, which also includes training and support of BOM Portal at these locations.User Interviews –Christopher Horn
Wednesday, March 05, 2025 2:34 PM
   UXUI Feature Page 616    
The packaging and inventory point is specific to bom template but not neccesarily formulation 
Unchecked inventory points where solution in a recipe is consuming another corp formulation 
For the specific bom template we're looking at 
Plant specific inventory points, every plant inventory point represents unique combination without 
continuing Packaging Components
Thursday, March 20, 2025 10:17 AM
   UXUI Feature Page 617    
https://www.figma.com/board/GYt9Cc9pkiwiNW6F4RfZkN/BOM -Phase -4---UX-Planning?node -id=
0-1&t=zACh2h9julWW0iVm -1
The only thing I'm concerned about is that we havent met with the business to demo anything we 
have so far and we're talking about early usability testing. I'd like for them to see it 
Rebuttle from kay: this is just to guide the design process BOM UX Phase 4 Roadmap
Tuesday, April 08, 2025 11:01 AM
   UXUI Feature Page 618    
User Testing: Rich O'Connor 
Adjustable columns for description of material 
Select one not multi select for status cards
Be able to sort columns 
Predictive Search function automatic no enter button 
Formulation Page:
"BOM Standard" instead of "BOM Settings" 
Ability to use different ingredient I want to be able to use formulation may 15th 
Effective Date/ Expiration Date: Functionality of being able to do future effective date of BOM 
Pink material inactive
Yellow 
Dark Blue indicates Primary
Light blue indicates alternate 
Selection for Scrap percentage scrap and yield 
Use to seeing "Show Used" 
Change inventory to inventory points
Global Scrap vs component Scrap 
The Step is an inventory point however it does not inventory we are not creating inventory with a 
phantom 
Add Material, material type, etc instead of add inventory under
How are we handling submission with Phantom BOMs
In bom portal currently 
View Spec PDF info Standards 4/15/2025 -User testing
Tuesday, April 15, 2025 3:02 PM
   UXUI Feature Page 619    
Christopher Horn
Set default plant to populate on load
Filtered typing on plant
Autosizing of columns
Moving away from engineering boms totally?
Version History 001 002 003 3031 3032 3033
Status history who did what for statuses under status history
Resorting the columns, can I move them around to be placed different or take them out 
Forever Scroll 
Have Overview hidden from the get go then unhide if they need it
Color coordination from bom types alternates on formulation page under yields/bom settings
Lead Days do we need them? Ask the cost accounting team4/17/2025 -User Testing
Thursday, April 17, 2025 2:34 PM
   UXUI Feature Page 620    
David Sell
Bounce around to different plants 
Columns that fill the screen
Update Search to just search not "search Material"
David mentioned he would want the full list of plants available in one page
Export excel from home page. 
Multiple WIP Steps they want to spotlight the step or focus
Scrap option for packaging
When you click on a BOM it should automatically open in a new tab, select multi
Version under spec changes change to Spec 2.1 or even just leave the date and put version at the end: 
7/4/20 (spec 1)
Want to click onto edit 
Will there ever be a time where moving forward we will only edit and send a whip, not the full bom 
Inventory Points, APB, how will those be handled moving forward. 
ECM Dates Future Dates 4/18/2025 -User Testing
Friday, April 18, 2025 11:00 AM
   UXUI Feature Page 621    
User Testing & Feature Feedback Summary
General UX/UI Improvements
Columns should be autosized, resizable, and support resorting (drag and drop to rearrange or 
remove).•
Enable predictive search functionality that does not require pressing Enter. •
Update search bar label from “Search Material” to just “Search.”•
Forever scroll to be implemented.•
Clicking a BOM should open in a new tab automatically.•
Option to export Excel from the homepage.•
Filtered typing on the plant dropdown field.•
Set default plant to auto -populate on load. •
Allow multi -select functionality for WIP steps with spotlighting capability. •
Material & BOM Settings
Change "BOM Settings" to "BOM Standard" on the Formulation page.•
Effective Date / Expiration Date fields should support future -dated BOMs and ECM dates. •
Add option for Scrap on Packaging.•
Use color coding for material types:
Pink = Inactive/Deleted Material○
Yellow = Edited Material○
Dark Blue = Primary Material○
Light Blue = Alternate Material○•
Color coordination for BOM types and alternates on the Formulation page under yields/settings.•
Inventory & Phantom BOMs
Rename “Inventory” to “Inventory Points.”•
Clarify handling of Phantom BOMs —submission behavior and data tracking. •
Define how inventory points, APBs, and phantoms are handled —note: “The Step is an inventory 
point but does not generate inventory.”•
Confirm whether Engineering BOMs are being phased out.•
Clarify whether WIP only submissions will still be valid moving forward •
Versioning & History
Version History should reflect logical versioning (001, 002, 003, 3031…).•
For Spec Changes, use format like: 7/4/20 (spec 1) or Spec 2.1 . •
Status History should show who did what (action traceability).•
Navigation & Layout
Show all plants on one page if possible.•
Hide material overview by default; let users unhide as needed on formulation page.•User Testing
Monday, April 21, 2025 9:53 AM
   UXUI Feature Page 622    
Corporate Formulation -> Bom Template -> Bom Version
Goal: Test and gather feedback on new process of how to create and update BOM Templates. 
1. Create template
2. manage template
Plant inventory
Rework
Attatch formulation
Move pack material
3. Create bom Version
Task 1: 
Angelica's Thoughts:
Having to have cost center is new, that should be fine. She's not sure if it's necessary or a requirement. 
The cost center is driven by whatever resource she selects. It's just different. 
Task 2.1
Angelica's Thoughts:
It's a little different but it makes sense. 
Task 2.2: renamed rework to additional seconds. 
We need a better way of showing when we are in edit mode possibly I saw her hover over edit a few 
times to check 
Went to hover over edit first then went to edit, then completed and confirmed. 
If it was a byproduct she needs option to assign percentage. (versioning is where this can be done)
Task 2.3: move packaging. She quickly was able to move packaging and complete the task. (no thoughts 
straight forward
Task 2.4: Attatching formulation
She went to tumble step in formulation clicked edit and clicked on for attach and then selected save and 
confirmed her changes. 
Attatching a formulation not a template, they arent linking templates to templates. 
She wants ability to create template with two formulations right now is unchecked inventory point. She 
wants to connect two different formulations into one big template. 
Visual and wants to be able to connect and make a larger bom template. 
Task 3: create bom version
What does the link do? It's a link to it's own formulation. 
She is wondering which version she creates it for when edit mode is turned on it doesn’t indicate visually 
what exact formulation is being edited, the one connected to last steps or the one that's attached. 
She created the version, shes confused checking resources plant resource network resource, etc. It's just 
different, the view is different we wouldn’t see the option to have both formulations in the same page 
in current system we would have to update each resource seperately for the plant inventory point. 
She has no questions over process of creating versions. 
Feedback Overall:Review and Testing Session -Angelica
Monday, July 28, 2025 3:03 PM
   UXUI Feature Page 623    
Feedback Overall:
None, what does the lines and arrow, solid line, and dashed line. Square step, circle inventory, 
solid line means this process is going, dotted, they are connected but not linked. 
Ranking Wise Angelica thinks it's just new, she guesses it looks more simple, but to be honest its too 
early to say if it's going to be easier or not, testing will still be needed for bom structures like a ton of 
unchecked inventory points when different formulations are linked, seeing the whole tree will likely see 
some challenges. 
The more complicated the tree, the harder it gets she wants to see that
Creating different versions gets complicated and will need tedious oversight, multiple templates with 
APB's. Setting up 4 templates then versioning each template, combine versions into bigger templates. 
Maybe the attachment would be able to connect four formulations to create one template. 
   UXUI Feature Page 624    
ROLE: train and support production planning and material requirements planning at our plants, which 
also includes training and support of BOM Portal at these locations.
Corporate Formulation -> BOM Template -> BOM Version
BOM Forge –New platform for BOM Portal
1. Create BOM
Flew Through this 
It autofills
2. Manage BOM 
Add Plant Inventory
See notesa.a.
Add Rework
Straigtforwarda.b.
Move Packaging
a.c.
Attach Formulationd.
3. Create BOM Version
Would plant production BOM Managers be doing this task. 
Plant inventory –adding a step that will be a plant inventory
Added in inventory step
For copacker first version will be production. Add Plant Inventory –Does the application create material number for you 
Ideally system will have material number ready, will have to confirm that its correct
Used to seeing it attached to step, now we made it's own step. 
The idea was proposed by the developers because concept of step and inventory are to different 
things. Separate inventory and step, because freeze 
20 steps may be too cluttered. In complex cases the visuals will be more complex to display of 
tree. This is an edge case. 
The idea for bom template is to be more global, global template
Template
Version -> I want to shout out kay she did amazing in these review and testing sessions for bom template user 
testing. Multiple times she was able to explain bom portals functionality. Review and Testing Session -Rich O'Connor
Friday, August 01, 2025 9:00 AM
   UXUI Feature Page 625    
1. Create BOM Template
Chris was easily able to create a template 
Templates are global user must enter
Material Number
Plant Number
Cost Accounting Center
2. Manage Bom Template
Add Plant Inventory
Chris first instinct was to click edit. This was not correct however the button is still accessible 
after edit was clicked○
He then clicked on the step and added inventory○
He then saved, confirmed changes○
Can we create inventory points○
Can we create inventory on finished good. Can we create inventory at plant for that item. 
Bom version ▪
Maybe should we split out all steps including corps step and inventory points. ▪○a.
Add Rework
He was able to add very quickly○
He was confused about having to hit seconds vs what? ○
When he makes changes, he likes the highlight's the changes. ○b.
Move Packaging Materialc.
Attach Formulation
No feedback from previous boma.
Wasn’t sure wants to know if material is going to be there is it going to attach one of the 
options. b.
Ability to add freeform material to attach c.d.
3. Create BOM Version
The shaded areas are processes, any changes associated with processes or a new process will 
Tasks he don't typically interact with as much production boms is his thing. Very intuititve to him 
most everything waas Review and Testing Session –Christopher Horn
Friday, August 01, 2025 10:01 AM
   UXUI Feature Page 626    
Friday, August 01, 2025 11:49 AM
   UXUI Feature Page 627    
BOM Template Redesign
1. Create BOM Template
2. Manage BOM Template
Plant inventorya.
Reworkb.
Move packaging materialc.
Attach formulationd.
3. Create BOM VersionReview and Testing Session –Doug Wolfe, Geof Schroeder, 
David Sell
Monday, August 04, 2025 1:30 PM
   UXUI Feature Page 628    
Finance bom dictates how all derived versions will look like and dictates structure of every one. 
Child boms derived from canonical bom type
One to one dependence inbetween template and bom type
Copacker plants finance one –production boms
New bom types to be supported 
Single page to maintain bom template and version 
Emphasis on the need to use single page 
1 canonical bom type per template
Essentially we are enabling users to inact changes on a single page.
Canonical bom cannot be changed, bom on front end can
Button to clone driver button, user should be able to identify which cost center and location they want 
to copy that structure which then creates template on plant, material, cost center. 
Ability to produce similar bom entities with same structure. Cloning also allowed from canonical bom 
level. 
For this we are for sure that for plant configuration and localized materials are succinctly defined. 
If no yellow comments then safe to use. 
All bom versions connected to canonical bom 
Bom template = canonical BOM
Users are not familiar with cost center and numbers, they just want to select plant and resource. Cost 
center
Are they going to choose cost center for canonical bom 
Plant resources have a relationship between cost -center lets just use resource insead of cost center. 
Lets see if we can set a ground right now. 
Resource M:1 Cost Center
Bom versions defined by cost center### Key Points:
1. **Canonical BOM Type**:
   -The canonical BOM dictates the structure and appearance of all derived BOM versions.
   -Child BOMs are derived from the canonical BOM type, maintaining a one -to-one dependency 
between the template and BOM type.
2. **Single Page Management**:
   -Emphasis on using a single page to maintain BOM templates and versions.
   -Users can enact changes on this single page, ensuring streamlined management.
3. **Cloning Capability**:
   -Users can clone BOM structures, specifying the cost center and location.
   -This cloning can occur at the canonical BOM level, allowing for the creation of similar BOM entities 
with the same structure.
4. **Plant Configuration and Localized Materials**:
   -Plant configurations and localized materials are succinctly defined to ensure clarity and accuracy.
5. **Cost Center and Resource Relationship**:
   -Users should select plant and resource instead of cost center, simplifying the process.
   -There is a relationship between plant resources and cost centers, but the focus should be on 
resources.
6. **Safety and Comments**:
   -If there are no yellow comments, the BOM is safe to use.
### Considerations:
1. **User Familiarity**:
   -Users are not familiar with cost centers and numbers; they prefer selecting plants and resources.
   -Simplifying the interface to focus on plant and resource selection can improve user experience.
2. **Resource to Cost Center Mapping**:
   -Establish a clear mapping of resources to cost centers (Resource M:1 Cost Center) to ensure accurate 
BOM versions.
3. **Ground Rules**:
   -Set clear ground rules for the relationship between resources and cost centers to avoid confusion.
### Workflow:
1. **Single Page Management**:
   -Implement a single -page interface for managing BOM templates and versions.
   -Ensure users can easily clone BOM structures and specify necessary details like cost center and 
location.
2. **Cloning Process**:
   -Provide a button to clone BOM structures.
   -Allow users to select the plant and resource, which will automatically map to the correct cost center.
3. **Safety Checks**:
   -Implement a system to highlight any issues (e.g., yellow comments) and ensure BOMs are safe to use.Monday, August 25, 2025 1:07 PM
   UXUI 2025 Data Page 629    
TCode Function
CS01 Create Material BOM
CS02 Change Material BOM
CS03 Display Material BOM
C201 Create Master Recipe
c202 Change Master Recipe
C203 Display Master Recipe
CS11 Display BOM Level by Level
cs15 BOM Where -Used List
CS21 Create BOM from Template
mm01 Create Material
MM02 Change Material
MM03 Display Material 
MM06 Flag Material for Deletion
SE16 Data Browser/ Table Name
ZE16(SE16N) General Table Display
CK11N Create cost estimate with Quantity Structure we
CK13N Display material Cost Estimate with Quantity Structure
ZMATEXTENDTable Description Key Fields
MAST BOM Link to Material MATNR (Material Number), STLNR (BOM 
Number), WERKS (Plant), STLAN (BOM 
Usage)
STPO BOM Item Details (components) STLNR (BOM Number), STLKN (BOM Item 
Node), IDNRK (Component Material)
STKO BOM Header (main BOM info) STLNR (BOM Number), STLTY (BOM 
Category), STLAL (Alternative BOM)
MARA General Material Data MATNR (Material Number), MTART
(Material Type), MATKL (Material Group)
MAKT Material Descriptions (language -specific) MATNR (Material Number), SPRAS
(Language Key), MAKTX (Material 
Description)
MARK Material Data for Customer MATNR (Material Number), KUNNR
(Customer Number), WERKS (Plant)
MARC Material Data for Plant MATNR (Material Number), WERKS (Plant), 
includes planning, MRP, and purchasing 
data
ZPARM Custom Config Table –Often used to store 
configurable parameters for integrations or 
linking RFC logicZKEY (Custom Key), ZVALUE (Value), plus 
RFC linking fields if applicableTransaction Codes
Thursday, October 17, 2024 1:49 PM
   SAP Page 630    
SAP UPGRADE HYPERCARE BOX OFFICE FLOW
THE GO -LIVE FOR THE CUTOVER IS THIS WEEKEND STARTING TOMORROW MORNING 
Bridge call begins at 6am central
Is anyone 24/7 for our support? Delloitte
Saul Acosta, 
Once cutover is generated we will need to flip BOM Portal to P49
Bridge calls are on the SAP side, allows users to gain visibility and monitor health check from the cutover 
itself during migration
Joey seems to be the only one that knows the submission process so we need him available in case we 
are unable to submit to SAP that's the only thing Doug is thinking on. 
We don’t anticipate any problems
Problems are going to arrise from EAP to BOM Portal or just regular submissionUpgrade Cutover Plan 5/9/25
Friday, May 09, 2025 11:32 AM
   SAP Page 631    
EAP Connection URLs
System 
typeLink System Server
SBX http://bobj -
sbxa.tyson.com/dswsbobje/services/SessionAWSWBOBJSAP03:64
00AWSW
BOBJSA
P03
Dev http://bobj -
deva.tyson.com/dswsbobje/services/SessionAWSWBOBJDAP01:64
00AWSW
BOBJD
AP01
D9 http://bobj -
devb.tyson.com/dswsbobje/services/SessionAWSWBOBJD9AP01:6
400AWSW
BOBJD9
AP01
QA http://bobj -
qaa.tyson.com/dswsbobje/services/SessionAWSWBOBJQAP01:64
00AWSW
BOBJQ
AP01
Q9 http://bobj -
qab.tyson.com/dswsbobje/services/SessionAWSWBOBJQ9AP01:6
400AWSW
BOBJQ
9AP01
PreProd http://bobj -
preproda.tyson.com/dswsbobje/services/Session@BO_PREPROD_A AWSW
BOBJA
AP01
A9 http://bobj -
preprodb.tyson.com/dswsbobje/services/Session@BO_PREPROD_B AWSW
BOBJA9
AP01
Prod http://bobj2.tyson.com/dswsbobje/services/Sessi
on@BOBJPROD2 AWSW
BOBJPA
P01Data Links AFE
Tuesday, October 22, 2024 7:46 AM
   SAP Page 632    
Domestic Cutover to QA 2024
Wednesday, November 13, 2024 9:05 AM
   SAP Page 633    
We are behind on the track of testing side by 600 members. SAP Upgrade Plan 12/30
Monday, December 30, 2024 1:53 PM
   SAP Page 634    
SAP Upgrade testing approach for Q41 
Dileep has setup business requirements setup in ALM what the test are and what they're calling from 
UAT 
Manual UAT
Controls and UAT testing 
Controls –FI Product costing under BOM Portal UAT testing SAP Upgrade –Testing Strategy 1/24
Friday, January 24, 2025 8:24 AM
   SAP Page 635    
To analyze the submitmodel payload and determine which fields catalog alternate components, we 
need to identify relevant fields that indicate alternate components, understand their relationships 
within the data structure, and explain how they are used in the model. Here is a structured breakdown 
of these findings:
  "MaterialDescription": "SWT PKLE BGK",
  "ResourceNetworkName": "2319PKLE01",
  "BomAlt": "31",
  "BomUsage": "1"
altItemGroup"
The Instructions field within the LastFormulationStep object contains textual instructions that 
specify alternative components and how they should be used. This provides flexibility in the 
formulation process by allowing substitutions and adjustments.•
After analyzing the json it seems there are no fields that indicate alternate components.
Relevant Fields Indicating Alternate Components
BomAlt : 
Occurrences : This field is present at the root level of the payload. •
Usage : It represents an alternative Bill of Materials (BOM).•1.
Instructions : 
Occurrences : This field is present within the LastFormulationStep object. •
Usage : Contains textual instructions that mention the use of alternative components.•
"Instructions": [
  "NOTE: Brine solution may be used as an alternative to dry salt. 
However, the pickle formula must be re -calculated to adjust the 
amount of water used because the alternate ingredient is NOT a 1:1 
replacement for the specified ingredient."
]2.
Relationships Within the Data Structure
Component Groups
The payload contains several nested component groups within the LastFormulationStep object. 
These groups include:
StandardComponentGroups
Contains fields identifying components i.1.
PackagingComponentGroups(Empty)2.
SecondsComponentGroups(Empty)3.
ReworkComponentGroups(Empty)4.
ByProductComponentGroups(Empty)5.
LcfDetailComponentGroups(Empty)6.
Each of these groups can contain multiple components, and the Instructions field within these 
groups can indicate alternative components.
How They Are Used in the Model
Cataloging Alternatives : 
The BomAlt field is used to catalog and manage alternative BOMs in this case the . This 
allows the system to switch between different BOMs based on specific criteria or 
conditions.•1.
Alternative Instructions : 
The Instructions field within the LastFormulationStep object contains textual 
instructions that specify alternative components and how they should be used. This 
provides flexibility in the formulation process by allowing substitutions and adjustments.•2.
Component Relationships : 
Within each component group, components are listed along with their attributes. The 
Instructions field helps in identifying which components can serve as alternatives to 
each other within the same group.•3.
Summary
Fields Identifying Alternate Components :
BomAlt•
Instructions•
Relationships :
BomAlt is used at the root level to indicate alternative BOMs. •
Instructions within LastFormulationStep provide details on alternative components and 
their usage.•
Usage :
These fields help in managing and recognizing alternative components and BOMs, 
allowing for flexibility and substitution within the recipe and BOM structures.•••
By understanding these fields and their relationships, we can effectively manage alternative 
components within the submitmodel payload.
The Component group •
{
  "RecipeBatchQty": 1000.0,
  "MaterialNumber": "10000057610",
  "PlantCode": "2319",
  "SapVersion": "3031",
  "Usage": "1",
  "BaseUnit": "LB",
  "BomStatus": "1",
  "RecipeId": 759354,
  "LastFormulationStep": {
    "PercentUsedWhereIGo": 1.0,
    "PreviousSteps": [],
    "GroupYield": 100.0,
    "StandardComponentGroups": [
      {
        "Components": [
          {
            "UsageProbability": 100.0,
            "IsMainIngredient": false,
            "ComponentScrapPct": 0.0,
            "MaterialNumber": "96999998",
            "IsExtended": true,
            "UomConversionRate": 1.0,
            "Uom": "LB",
            "ItemCategory": "N",
            "RelevantToCosting": true,
            "Qty": 0.0,
            "LeadDays": 0.0,
            "SecondsType": ""
          }
        ],
        "StepComponentPct": 0.702556,
        "IsSecondsPackaging": false
      },
      {
        "Components": [
          {
            "UsageProbability": 100.0,
            "IsMainIngredient": false,
            "ComponentScrapPct": 0.0,
            "MaterialNumber": "96002975",
            "IsExtended": true,
            "UomConversionRate": 1.0,
            "Uom": "LB",
            "ItemCategory": "L",
            "RelevantToCosting": true,
            "Qty": 0.0,
            "LeadDays": 0.0,
            "SecondsType": ""
          }   "MaterialNumber": "10000057610" has the following components
"MaterialNumber": "96999998",Analyzing the submitmodel payload to determine which fields catalog alternate components.
Idenitfy relevant fields that indicate alternate components1.
Understand their relationshiop within the json structure2.
Explain how each field is used in the model3.
Relevant Fields Indicating Alternate Components
BomAlt : 
Occurrences : This field is present at the root level of the payload. •
Usage : It represents an alternative Bill of Materials (BOM). (is this material an alternate 
component for another formulation?)•1.
Instructions : 
Occurrences : This field is present within the LastFormulationStep object. •
Usage : Contains textual instructions that mention the use of alternative components.•
"Instructions": [
  "NOTE: Brine solution may be used as an alternative to dry salt. 
However, the pickle formula must be re -calculated to adjust the amount 
of water used because the alternate ingredient is NOT a 1:1 replacement
for the specified ingredient."
]2.
Relationships Within the Data Structure
Component Groups
The payload contains several nested component groups within the LastFormulationStep object. These 
groups include:
StandardComponentGroups
Contains fields identifying componentsa.1.
PackagingComponentGroups(empty)2.
SecondsComponentGroups(empty)3.
ReworkComponentGroups(empty)4.
ByProductComponentGroups(empty)5.
LcfDetailComponentGroups(empty)6.
Each of these groups can contain multiple components, and the Instructions field within these groups 
can indicate alternative components.
Example Structure
Here is an example of how Instructions are used within a component group to indicate alternative 
components:
jsonCopy Code
"LastFormulationStep": {
  "PercentUsedWhereIGo": 1.0,
  "PreviousSteps": [],
  "GroupYield": 100.0,
  "StandardComponentGroups": [
    {
      "Components": [
        {
          "UsageProbability": 100.0,
          "IsMainIngredient": false,
          "ComponentScrapPct": 0.0,
          "MaterialNumber": "96999998" ,
          "IsExtended": true,
          "UomConversionRate": 1.0,
          "Uom": "LB",
          "ItemCategory": "N",
          "RelevantToCosting": true,
          "Qty": 0.0,
          "LeadDays": 0.0,
          "SecondsType": ""
        }
      ],
      "StepComponentPct": 0.702556 ,
      "IsSecondsPackaging": false
    }
  ],
  "Instructions": [
    "NOTE: Brine solution may be used as an alternative to dry salt. However, the
pickle formula must be re -calculated to adjust the amount of water used because 
the alternate ingredient is NOT a 1:1 replacement for the specified ingredient."
  ]
}
How They Are Used in the Model
Cataloging Alternatives : 
The BomAlt field is used to catalog and manage alternative BOMs. This allows the system to 
switch between different BOMs based on specific criteria or conditions.•1.
Alternative Instructions : 
The Instructions field within the LastFormulationStep object contains textual 
instructions that specify alternative components and how they should be used. This provides 
flexibility in the formulation process by allowing substitutions and adjustments.•2.
Component Relationships : 
Within each component group, components are listed along with their attributes. The 
Instructions field helps in identifying which components can serve as alternatives to each 
other within the same group.•3.
Summary
Fields Identifying Alternate Components :
BomAlt•
Instructions•
Relationships :
BomAlt is used at the root level to indicate alternative BOMs. •
Instructions within LastFormulationStep provide details on alternative components and 
their usage.•
Usage :
These fields help in managing and recognizing alternative components and BOMs, 
allowing for flexibility and substitution within the recipe and BOM structures.•••
By understanding these fields and their relationships, we can effectively manage alternative 
components within the submitModel payload.•After analyzing the json file you provided I have determined that the material does not contain alternate 
components. The only field present that mentions the use of alternate components is the instructions: 
[ "NOTE: Brine solution may be used as an alternative to dry salt. However, the pickle formula must be 
re-calculated to adjust the amount of water used because the alternate ingredient is NOT a 1:1 
replacement for the specified ingredient." ] 
I analyzed the submit payload against this payload. The submit payload contains a component group 
("altItemGroup") This is where alternate components are typically stored. The json payload provided 
does not include this group or any other group containing alternate itemsSubmitmodel API Analysis
Thursday, March 06, 2025 3:59 PM
   SAP Page 636    
          }
        ],
        "StepComponentPct": 0.15,
        "IsSecondsPackaging": false
      },
      {
        "Components": [
          {
            "UsageProbability": 100.0,
            "IsMainIngredient": false,
            "ComponentScrapPct": 0.0,
            "MaterialNumber": "96080009",
            "IsExtended": true,
            "UomConversionRate": 1.0,
            "Uom": "LB",
            "ItemCategory": "L",
            "RelevantToCosting": true,
            "Qty": 0.0,
            "LeadDays": 0.0,
            "SecondsType": ""
          }
        ],
        "StepComponentPct": 0.127778,
        "IsSecondsPackaging": false
      },
      {
        "Components": [
          {
            "UsageProbability": 100.0,
            "IsMainIngredient": false,
            "ComponentScrapPct": 0.0,
            "MaterialNumber": "96110023",
            "IsExtended": true,
            "UomConversionRate": 1.0,
            "Uom": "LB",
            "ItemCategory": "L",
            "RelevantToCosting": true,
            "Qty": 0.0,
            "LeadDays": 0.0,
            "SecondsType": ""
          }
        ],
        "StepComponentPct": 0.012222,
        "IsSecondsPackaging": false
      },
      {
        "Components": [
          {
            "UsageProbability": 100.0,
            "IsMainIngredient": false,
            "ComponentScrapPct": 0.0,
            "MaterialNumber": "96110080",
            "IsExtended": true,
            "UomConversionRate": 1.0,
            "Uom": "LB",
            "ItemCategory": "L",
            "RelevantToCosting": true,
            "Qty": 0.0,
            "LeadDays": 0.0,
            "SecondsType": ""
          }
        ],
        "StepComponentPct": 0.006111,
        "IsSecondsPackaging": false
      },
      {
        "Components": [
          {
            "UsageProbability": 100.0,
            "IsMainIngredient": false,
            "ComponentScrapPct": 0.0,
            "MaterialNumber": "96110078",
            "IsExtended": true,
            "UomConversionRate": 1.0,
            "Uom": "LB",
            "ItemCategory": "L",
            "RelevantToCosting": true,
            "Qty": 0.0,
            "LeadDays": 0.0,
            "SecondsType": ""
          }
        ],
        "StepComponentPct": 0.001333,
        "IsSecondsPackaging": false
      }
    ],
    "PackagingComponentGroups": [],
    "SecondsComponentGroups": [],
    "ReworkComponentGroups": [],
    "ByProductComponentGroups": [],
    "LcfDetailComponentGroups": [],
    "Instructions": [
      "NOTE:Brine solution may be used as an alternative to dry salt. However the pickle formula must be 
re-calculated to adjust the amount of water used because the alternate ingredient is NOT a 1:1 
replacement for the specified ingredient.NOTE:If brine is used, the salometer must be above 97°F and 
the brine should be clear.",
      "Add water to the tank. Turn on agitator. Allow agitator to run during the addition of ingredients. 
Add sodium phosphate. Allow sufficient time for it to dissolve (about 5 minutes). Check to see if the 
solution is clear before proceeding with the addition of other ingredients.IF PHOSPHATE IS NOT ADDED 
OR MIXED IN THIS SEQUENCE AND MANNER, IT WILL NOT GO INTO SOLUTION. After the phosphate is 
dissolved, add the remainder of the ingredients, except for the sodium erythorbate and sodium nitrite. 
Allow sufficient time for ingredients to dissolve. Add the sodium nitrite. Allow sufficient time for it to 
dissolve (about 2 -3 minutes). Add sodium erythorbate. Avoid sloshing, overfilling, under filling, etc. 
Check the finished pickle using a salometer. Turn off agitator. Transfer to holding tank. Allow pickle to 
dissolve before transferring to the line approximately 25 -30 minutes.",
      "================================================================",
      "|                      Rejection Criteria                      |",
      "================================================================",
      "|Criteria                                                      |",
      "---------------------------------------------------------------- ",
      "|Any Product that does not meet the above Product Standards.   |",
   SAP Page 637    
      "|Any Product that does not meet the above Product Standards.   |",
      "================================================================",
      "================================================================",
      "|          Microbiological Data -Additional Comments          |",
      "================================================================",
      "|Additional Details                                            |",
      "---------------------------------------------------------------- ",
      "|Please refer to Food Safety and Quality Assurance Policy 7.   |",
      "|14P&R Product Microbiological Specifications for specific     |",
      "|requirements and instructions.                                |",
      "================================================================"
    ],
    "FormulationDescription": "Pickle",
    "FormulationCode": "5685875"
  },
  "UserModel": {
    "UserName": "WINDMEYERC",
    "FullName": "Chris Windmeyer",
    "Email": " Chris.Windmeyer@tyson.com",
    "SecurityRoles": {
      "IsDeveloper": false,
      "IsAuthorizedProprietary": false,
      "HasAllPlantAccess": true,
      "Finance": {
        "IsAdmin": true,
        "CanCreateVersions": true,
        "CanViewEdit": false,
        "ViewOnly": true,
        "CanEdit": true,
        "CanUnlockStandards": true,
        "CanSubmitToSap": true,
        "CanCreateRecipe": true,
        "CanDeleteRecipe": true,
        "CanChangeAltProdBoms": true,
        "CanChangeCompScrap": true,
        "CanEditInstructions": true,
        "CanApproveCorpSpecChanges": true,
        "CanApprovePlantSpecChanges": true,
        "CanEditSeconds": true,
        "CanEditYields": true,
        "CanEditPackaging": true,
        "CanCreateEffectiveDates": true,
        "CanEditWipPercentages": true,
        "CanEditIngredientPercentages": true,
        "CanSetMainIngredient": true
      },
      "Production": {
        "IsAdmin": true,
        "CanCreateVersions": true,
        "CanViewEdit": false,
        "ViewOnly": true,
        "CanEdit": true,
        "CanUnlockStandards": true,
        "CanSubmitToSap": true,
        "CanCreateRecipe": true,
        "CanDeleteRecipe": true,
        "CanChangeAltProdBoms": true,
        "CanChangeCompScrap": true,
        "CanEditInstructions": true,
        "CanApproveCorpSpecChanges": true,
        "CanApprovePlantSpecChanges": true,
        "CanEditSeconds": true,
        "CanEditYields": true,
        "CanEditPackaging": true,
        "CanCreateEffectiveDates": true,
        "CanEditWipPercentages": true,
        "CanEditIngredientPercentages": true,
        "CanSetMainIngredient": true
      },
      "Engineering": {
        "IsAdmin": true,
        "CanCreateVersions": true,
        "CanViewEdit": false,
        "ViewOnly": true,
        "CanEdit": true,
        "CanUnlockStandards": true,
        "CanSubmitToSap": true,
        "CanCreateRecipe": true,
        "CanDeleteRecipe": true,
        "CanChangeAltProdBoms": true,
        "CanChangeCompScrap": true,
        "CanEditInstructions": true,
        "CanApproveCorpSpecChanges": true,
        "CanApprovePlantSpecChanges": true,
        "CanEditSeconds": true,
        "CanEditYields": true,
        "CanEditPackaging": true,
        "CanCreateEffectiveDates": true,
        "CanEditWipPercentages": true,
        "CanEditIngredientPercentages": true,
        "CanSetMainIngredient": true
      },
      "Aop": {
        "IsAdmin": false,
        "CanCreateVersions": false,
        "CanViewEdit": false,
        "ViewOnly": false,
        "CanEdit": false,
        "CanUnlockStandards": false,
        "CanSubmitToSap": false,
        "CanCreateRecipe": false,
        "CanDeleteRecipe": false,
        "CanChangeAltProdBoms": false,
        "CanChangeCompScrap": false,
        "CanEditInstructions": false,
        "CanApproveCorpSpecChanges": false,
        "CanApprovePlantSpecChanges": false,
        "CanEditSeconds": false,
   SAP Page 638    
        "CanEditSeconds": false,
        "CanEditYields": false,
        "CanEditPackaging": false,
        "CanCreateEffectiveDates": false,
        "CanEditWipPercentages": false,
        "CanEditIngredientPercentages": false,
        "CanSetMainIngredient": false
      },
      "Disassembly": {
        "IsAdmin": true,
        "IsEngineer": true,
        "IsSuperUser": true,
        "CanView": true
      },
      "FormulationAdjuster": { "IsAdmin": false, "CanEdit": false }
    }
  },
  "IsPlantSapCosting": true,
  "HasPrimaryRecipeSubmitted": true,
  "StartDate": "2024 -05-21T19:46:21",
  "Status": "4",
  "MaterialDescription": "SWT PKLE BGK",
  "ResourceNetworkName": "2319PKLE01",
  "BomAlt": "31",
  "BomUsage": "1",
  "Change": "A",
  "ProductVersionName": "PCKLE001",
  "Profile": "PI01",
  "ResourceNumber": "PCKLE001",
  "Throughput": 100000.0,
  "Crewing": 1.0,
  "Debug": false,
  "MaterialUom": { "Unit": "LB", "Numerator": 1.0, "Denominator": 1.0 },
  "SendBom": true,
  "SendRecipe": true,
  "SendLcf": false,
  "ExtendMaterials": false,
  "CanOverrideFormulation": false
}
   SAP Page 639    
The Component group 
{
  "RecipeBatchQty": 1000.0,
  "MaterialNumber": "10000057610",
  "PlantCode": "2319",
  "SapVersion": "3031",
  "Usage": "1",
  "BaseUnit": "LB",
  "BomStatus": "1",
  "RecipeId": 759354,
  "LastFormulationStep": {
    "PercentUsedWhereIGo": 1.0,
    "PreviousSteps": [],
    "GroupYield": 100.0,
    "StandardComponentGroups": [
      {
        "Components": [
          {
            "UsageProbability": 100.0,
            "IsMainIngredient": false,
            "ComponentScrapPct": 0.0,
            "MaterialNumber": "96999998",
            "IsExtended": true,
            "UomConversionRate": 1.0,
            "Uom": "LB",
            "ItemCategory": "N",
            "RelevantToCosting": true,
            "Qty": 0.0,
            "LeadDays": 0.0,
            "SecondsType": ""
          }
        ],
        "StepComponentPct": 0.702556,
        "IsSecondsPackaging": false
      },
      {
        "Components": [
          {
            "UsageProbability": 100.0,
            "IsMainIngredient": false,
            "ComponentScrapPct": 0.0,
            "MaterialNumber": "96002975",
            "IsExtended": true,
            "UomConversionRate": 1.0,
            "Uom": "LB",
            "ItemCategory": "L",
            "RelevantToCosting": true,
            "Qty": 0.0,
            "LeadDays": 0.0,
            "SecondsType": ""
          }
        ],
        "StepComponentPct": 0.15,
        "IsSecondsPackaging": false
      },
      {
        "Components": [
          {
            "UsageProbability": 100.0,
            "IsMainIngredient": false,
            "ComponentScrapPct": 0.0,Recipe : 759364
Plant: 2319
Material: 10000057610 (BRINE)
SAPVersion: 3031
Usage: 1
Component Material: 
96999998 (WATER)
96002975
96080009 (SWEETENER,SUG,GRAND,X -FNE)
96110023(PHOS,BD,SOD TRIPOLY ANHYDROUS) \
96110080(FOOD,CHEM,SDM,ERYTHORBATE)
96110078(FOOD,CHEM,SODIUM,NITRITE,GRANULAR,FOOD)Friday, March 07, 2025 11:03 AM
   SAP Page 640    
            "ComponentScrapPct": 0.0,
            "MaterialNumber": " 96080009 ",
            "IsExtended": true,
            "UomConversionRate": 1.0,
            "Uom": "LB",
            "ItemCategory": "L",
            "RelevantToCosting": true,
            "Qty": 0.0,
            "LeadDays": 0.0,
            "SecondsType": ""
          }
        ],
        "StepComponentPct": 0.127778,
        "IsSecondsPackaging": false
      },
      {
        "Components": [
          {
            "UsageProbability": 100.0,
            "IsMainIngredient": false,
            "ComponentScrapPct": 0.0,
            "MaterialNumber": " 96110023 ",
            "IsExtended": true,
            "UomConversionRate": 1.0,
            "Uom": "LB",
            "ItemCategory": "L",
            "RelevantToCosting": true,
            "Qty": 0.0,
            "LeadDays": 0.0,
            "SecondsType": ""
          }
        ],
        "StepComponentPct": 0.012222,
        "IsSecondsPackaging": false
      },
      {
        "Components": [
          {
            "UsageProbability": 100.0,
            "IsMainIngredient": false,
            "ComponentScrapPct": 0.0,
            "MaterialNumber": " 96110080 ",
            "IsExtended": true,
            "UomConversionRate": 1.0,
            "Uom": "LB",
            "ItemCategory": "L",
            "RelevantToCosting": true,
            "Qty": 0.0,
            "LeadDays": 0.0,
            "SecondsType": ""
          }
        ],
        "StepComponentPct": 0.006111,
        "IsSecondsPackaging": false
      },
      {
        "Components": [
          {
            "UsageProbability": 100.0,
            "IsMainIngredient": false,
            "ComponentScrapPct": 0.0,
            "MaterialNumber": " 96110078" ,
            "IsExtended": true,
            "UomConversionRate": 1.0,
   SAP Page 641    
            "Uom": "LB",
            "ItemCategory": "L",
            "RelevantToCosting": true,
            "Qty": 0.0,
            "LeadDays": 0.0,
            "SecondsType": ""
          }
        ],
        "StepComponentPct": 0.001333,
        "IsSecondsPackaging": false
      }
    ],
    "PackagingComponentGroups": [],
    "SecondsComponentGroups": [],
    "ReworkComponentGroups": [],
    "ByProductComponentGroups": [],
    "LcfDetailComponentGroups": [],
    "Instructions": [
      "NOTE:Brine solution may be used as an alternative to dry salt. However the pickle formula must be 
re-calculated to adjust the amount of water used because the alternate ingredient is NOT a 1:1 
replacement for the specified ingredient.NOTE:If brine is used, the salometer must be above 97°F and 
the brine should be clear.",
      "Add water to the tank. Turn on agitator. Allow agitator to run during the addition of ingredients. 
Add sodium phosphate. Allow sufficient time for it to dissolve (about 5 minutes). Check to see if the 
solution is clear before proceeding with the addition of other ingredients.IF PHOSPHATE IS NOT ADDED 
OR MIXED IN THIS SEQUENCE AND MANNER, IT WILL NOT GO INTO SOLUTION. After the phosphate is 
dissolved, add the remainder of the ingredients, except for the sodium erythorbate and sodium nitrite. 
Allow sufficient time for ingredients to dissolve. Add the sodium nitrite. Allow sufficient time for it to 
dissolve (about 2 -3 minutes). Add sodium erythorbate. Avoid sloshing, overfilling, under filling, etc. 
Check the finished pickle using a salometer. Turn off agitator. Transfer to holding tank. Allow pickle to 
dissolve before transferring to the line approximately 25 -30 minutes.",
      "================================================================",
      "|                      Rejection Criteria                      |",
      "================================================================",
      "|Criteria                                                      |",
      "---------------------------------------------------------------- ",
      "|Any Product that does not meet the above Product Standards.   |",
      "================================================================",
      "================================================================",
      "|          Microbiological Data -Additional Comments          |",
      "================================================================",
      "|Additional Details                                            |",
      "---------------------------------------------------------------- ",
      "|Please refer to Food Safety and Quality Assurance Policy 7.   |",
      "|14P&R Product Microbiological Specifications for specific     |",
      "|requirements and instructions.                                |",
      "================================================================"
    ],
    "FormulationDescription": "Pickle",
    "FormulationCode": "5685875"
  },
  "UserModel": {
    "UserName": "WINDMEYERC",
    "FullName": "Chris Windmeyer",
    "Email": " Chris.Windmeyer@tyson.com",
    "SecurityRoles": {
      "IsDeveloper": false,
      "IsAuthorizedProprietary": false,
      "HasAllPlantAccess": true,
      "Finance": {
        "IsAdmin": true,
        "CanCreateVersions": true,
        "CanViewEdit": false,
        "ViewOnly": true,
        "CanEdit": true,
        "CanUnlockStandards": true,
        "CanSubmitToSap": true,
   SAP Page 642    
        "CanCreateRecipe": true,
        "CanDeleteRecipe": true,
        "CanChangeAltProdBoms": true,
        "CanChangeCompScrap": true,
        "CanEditInstructions": true,
        "CanApproveCorpSpecChanges": true,
        "CanApprovePlantSpecChanges": true,
        "CanEditSeconds": true,
        "CanEditYields": true,
        "CanEditPackaging": true,
        "CanCreateEffectiveDates": true,
        "CanEditWipPercentages": true,
        "CanEditIngredientPercentages": true,
        "CanSetMainIngredient": true
      },
      "Production": {
        "IsAdmin": true,
        "CanCreateVersions": true,
        "CanViewEdit": false,
        "ViewOnly": true,
        "CanEdit": true,
        "CanUnlockStandards": true,
        "CanSubmitToSap": true,
        "CanCreateRecipe": true,
        "CanDeleteRecipe": true,
        "CanChangeAltProdBoms": true,
        "CanChangeCompScrap": true,
        "CanEditInstructions": true,
        "CanApproveCorpSpecChanges": true,
        "CanApprovePlantSpecChanges": true,
        "CanEditSeconds": true,
        "CanEditYields": true,
        "CanEditPackaging": true,
        "CanCreateEffectiveDates": true,
        "CanEditWipPercentages": true,
        "CanEditIngredientPercentages": true,
        "CanSetMainIngredient": true
      },
      "Engineering": {
        "IsAdmin": true,
        "CanCreateVersions": true,
        "CanViewEdit": false,
        "ViewOnly": true,
        "CanEdit": true,
        "CanUnlockStandards": true,
        "CanSubmitToSap": true,
        "CanCreateRecipe": true,
        "CanDeleteRecipe": true,
        "CanChangeAltProdBoms": true,
        "CanChangeCompScrap": true,
        "CanEditInstructions": true,
        "CanApproveCorpSpecChanges": true,
        "CanApprovePlantSpecChanges": true,
        "CanEditSeconds": true,
        "CanEditYields": true,
        "CanEditPackaging": true,
        "CanCreateEffectiveDates": true,
        "CanEditWipPercentages": true,
        "CanEditIngredientPercentages": true,
        "CanSetMainIngredient": true
      },
      "Aop": {
        "IsAdmin": false,
        "CanCreateVersions": false,
   SAP Page 643    
        "CanViewEdit": false,
        "ViewOnly": false,
        "CanEdit": false,
        "CanUnlockStandards": false,
        "CanSubmitToSap": false,
        "CanCreateRecipe": false,
        "CanDeleteRecipe": false,
        "CanChangeAltProdBoms": false,
        "CanChangeCompScrap": false,
        "CanEditInstructions": false,
        "CanApproveCorpSpecChanges": false,
        "CanApprovePlantSpecChanges": false,
        "CanEditSeconds": false,
        "CanEditYields": false,
        "CanEditPackaging": false,
        "CanCreateEffectiveDates": false,
        "CanEditWipPercentages": false,
        "CanEditIngredientPercentages": false,
        "CanSetMainIngredient": false
      },
      "Disassembly": {
        "IsAdmin": true,
        "IsEngineer": true,
        "IsSuperUser": true,
        "CanView": true
      },
      "FormulationAdjuster": { "IsAdmin": false, "CanEdit": false }
    }
  },
  "IsPlantSapCosting": true,
  "HasPrimaryRecipeSubmitted": true,
  "StartDate": "2024 -05-21T19:46:21",
  "Status": "4",
  "MaterialDescription": "SWT PKLE BGK",
  "ResourceNetworkName": "2319PKLE01",
  "BomAlt": "31",
  "BomUsage": "1",
  "Change": "A",
  "ProductVersionName": "PCKLE001",
  "Profile": "PI01",
  "ResourceNumber": "PCKLE001",
  "Throughput": 100000.0,
  "Crewing": 1.0,
  "Debug": false,
  "MaterialUom": { "Unit": "LB", "Numerator": 1.0, "Denominator": 1.0 },
  "SendBom": true,
  "SendRecipe": true,
  "SendLcf": false,
  "ExtendMaterials": false,
  "CanOverrideFormulation": false
}
   SAP Page 644    
Upgrade Cutover 2023 -Updated for DnA 2024.xlsx
Every validation tester's User ID needs to be sent prior to make sure we are unlocked
1. Downtime and Backup Procedures:
Estimated 3 hours for stopping all interfaces, performing backups, and other necessary tasks. •
2. System Verification Process:
Once verification is complete, the system will be brought back up.•
3. Communication Channels:
Email Communication:•
Barbara will send an email to the SAP Competency Center distribution list. If you are not part of 
this list, please request access via ARS.
Status Calls:•
A status call will be held at the start of verification testing. This line will remain open throughout 
the verification process.
Attendance Requirement:•
Each team is expected to have at least one representative attend every status meeting to provide 
updates and ensure effective communication with their respective teams about progress and 
potential needs.
4. Meeting Schedule:
Meeting Times:
Midnight•
4:00 AM•
8:00 AM•
Noon••
It is important for representatives from functional teams to be present at each of these times for 
timely updates.•
5. Initial Communication:
The first communication will include information on expected downtime and details about the 
cutover process.•SAP Domestic upgrade cutover
Thursday, October 24, 2024 11:03 AM
   SAP Page 645    
Requirements Documentation & Process Clarity (25%)
Collaborate with stakeholders to gather and document business requirements and functional 
specifications.
Use standardized templates to ensure clarity and consistency.
Maintain a centralized repository for requirements and process documentation.
Target Dates: 
Update every 1:1
Survey/Feedback to be completed by Oct 10 and review results by Oct 17.
Means of Measure: 
At least 90% of requirements are documented within agreed timelines.
Stakeholder survey/feedback with a minimum satisfaction score of 4/5 regarding clarity and 
completeness of documentation.
Stakeholder Collaboration & Communication (20%)
Schedule and lead regular meetings with stakeholders to review progress and confirm alignment on 
requirements
Simplify complex technical requirements into clear business terms for non -technical audiences.
Provide concise written and verbal updates to stakeholders.
Target Dates: 
Conduct stakeholder meetings at least weekly during requirements gathering.
Meeting notes shared within 24 hours after each session.
Means of Measure: 
Attendance, punctuality, and participation in 100% of assigned stakeholder meetings .
Stakeholder survey feedback showing improvement in communication clarity (minimum 4/5 
rating).
Documented meeting notes/action items shared within 24 hours of each session.
Project Delivery & Testing Support (10%)
Contribute to project delivery by ensuring requirements traceability from gathering through testing.
Develop and execute test plans.
Track and report on testing outcomes in collaboration with QA/technical teams.
Target Dates: 
Complete initial linkage requirements to planned test cases within 2 weeks of requirements 
gathering                                                           .
Develop and document assigned test plans and test cases by Day 25.
Execute assigned test cases and provide outcome documentation by Day 40.
Means of Measure: 
100% of assigned test cases documented and executed within project timelines.
Zero critical defects missed due to incomplete or unclear requirements.
Traceability matrix completed and validated before project go -live.
Assigned Support for Architect (45%)
Work side by side with the Architect to complete assignments as delegated (e.g., requirements 
clarification, documentation, validation, or analysis).
Deliver assignments within agreed timelines and according to provided instructions.
Seek clarification proactively to ensure work meets expected quality standards.
Target Dates: 
Assignments delegated throughout the PIP period must be delivered within the timeline agreed upon 
with the Architect.
Weekly check -ins with the Architect to confirm progress and adjust priorities as needed.
All deliverables completed no later than Day 45 of the PIP period.
Means of Measure: 
Feedback from the Architect indicating satisfactory performance on at least 90% of delegated tasks 
(minimum rating of 4/5).
100% of assignments completed within agreed timelines.
Deliverables demonstrate accuracy and completeness, requiring minimal rework.
Question
Question
The supervisor shall meet with the Team Member during the course of the performance 
improvement plan to gauge progress against the objectives and provide feedback to the Team 
Member. These meetings shall occur at the supervisor’s direction, and on a bi -weekly basis, at 
a minimum. For Performance Improvement Plans of shorter duration, e.g. 30 days, progress 
should be measured on a weekly basis. Human Resources attendance at these meetings is 
required for the initial meeting, and encouraged, but not mandatory for subsequent follow up 
meetings. Human Resources should be kept apprised of all discussions for the entirety of the 
PIP.
This Performance Improvement Plan shall remain in effect for:Week 1: 
1. Requirements Documentation & Process Clarity (25%)
Your Activity Alignment
Drafted and updated BRD for KSB1 Ref.Key1 visibility (9/11 –9/12). •
Sent draft to Kimmy for review and updated per feedback; forwarded to Tim for sign -off. •
Practiced requirement gathering prep by breaking down FI/CO reporting flow and cost center 
hierarchies.•
Loaded Cronacle AR jobs into structured sheet (9/15).•
Evidence Toward Measure
Deliverables (BRD drafts, Cronacle job documentation) show consistent documentation within required 
timelines.•
Clear linkage of requirements (cost center reporting, AR Cronacle jobs) to business processes supports 
traceability.•
2. Stakeholder Collaboration & Communication (20%)
Your Activity Alignment
Coordinated with Kimmy daily on SAP training, BRD development, and Cronacle job lists.•
Sent drafts to Tim for review and sign -off. •
Scheduled feedback loop with Matt Colegrove (9/15).•
Practiced simplifying technical SAP reporting (GR55 totals vs. KSB1 details) into business -relevant 
explanations.•
Evidence Toward Measure
Regular meeting notes, reviews, and action items (drafts sent, feedback requested).•
Written BRD and Cronacle documentation shared within 24 hours of creation.•
Early survey feedback can point to improved clarity of communication.•
3. Project Delivery & Testing Support (10%)
Your Activity Alignment
Began linking requirements (KSB1 visibility, AR job chains) to future testing by outlining objectives and 
expected outcomes.•
Practiced creating and running test sets in SAP (cost center sets, GR55 vs. KSB1 comparisons).•
Scheduled Cronacle job chain timeline with deliverables and validation dates (9/11 → 9/26). •
Evidence Toward Measure
Requirements are already structured for traceability (test sets linked to FI/CO reporting).•
Cronacle AR chain timeline sets clear checkpoints (validation, Lucid upload, final review).•
4. Assigned Support for Architect (45%)
Your Activity Alignment
Partnered closely with Kimmy on Cronacle jobs (draft → review → documentation). •
 ollowed Kimmy’s guidelines on BRD structure (removed solutioning, clarified scope, focused on 
business language).•
Delivered assignments (BRD draft, AR job sheet) on time, adjusting per her feedback.•
Evidence Toward Measure
Consistent hand -offs (drafts, documentation) show 100% on -time delivery. •
Feedback cycle with Kimmy demonstrates proactive clarification and quality assurance.•
Minimal rework needed after Kimmy’s guidance.•
Supervisor / HR Meeting Expectations
Your log demonstrates weekly progress reporting that maps directly to PIP objectives. •
For bi -weekly supervisor meetings, you can point to: •
9/8–9/12: Training, BRD drafting, Cronacle list prep. •
9/15 onward: AR Cronacle job documentation and sign -offs. •
HR can see that you’re documenting requirements, collaborating with stakeholders, aligning with 
Architect, and mapping tasks to testing —all within timelines.•
✅Recommendation for your 1:1 : Bring the daily log formatted against these four PIP categories. That 
way, you can show not just what you did, but how it meets the PIP’s exact measures (timeliness, 
stakeholder feedback, clarity, testing traceability, and Architect support).PIP Performance Expectations
Monday, September 15, 2025 2:53 PM
   SAP S4HANA Training Page 646    
Get list for AR1.
Cronacle table of finance_cronacle_jobs_main2.
Put steps for chain on there 3.
Go to lucid_upload_jobs
Templates "billing" to build diagram for AR task in a.
File with AR so kimmy can load and generate lucid chartb.
End objective is to insert into finance_background jobs lucidc.
Everything but what's in finance_background_jobsd.4.
She loads template and it builds information, depencdencys timing what order to execute. 5.
Any dependencies? Map it, which job executed at which time so on. 6.
Thursday report is generated from this based on all transactions goes to upper level bigwigs7.
If we something fail, take care of it. 8.
1) Paste your raw list
Open the workbook and go to Input_Main . 1.
Paste the full export (headers included) starting in A1.
The headers already match what’s in your screenshot:2.
Cutover Action Date, Interface, System, Chain Name , Job Scheduled Time (CST) , Job Scheduled Time 
(CST) 2nd , Frequency, HOLD / NA , Cutover Action (Before System Down), Dependency if Upgrade 
Delayed.•
Tip: you can paste more than 500 rows —if you have a much larger list, tell me and I’ll bump the table 
bounds.
2) Auto -pull only ARchains
Go to AR_Jobs .
This sheet automatically filters rows where Chain Name contains “AR” and shows:•
Chain Name•
Job Time (CST) ➜(your column E) •
Job Time 2nd ➜(your column F) •
HOLD / NA ➜(your column H) •
Frequency (for context)•
If your AR naming is different (e.g., “Z AR_…”, “AR_…”, “ACC_REC_…”) and the filter should key on 
something else, I can tweak the logic in seconds.•
3) Produce the slim extract Kimmy asked for (E, F, H)
Go to AR_Extract .
This sheet already trims down to the columns you asked for:•
Chain Name•
Job Time (CST) [E]•
Job Time 2nd (CST) [F]•
HOLD / NA [H]•
If you need a static copy, select the range and Paste Special → Values into a new tab.
4) Exclude anything in finance_background_jobs
Put any chain names that should be excluded into Exclusions_finance_background_jobs (column A). •
Check AR_Final—it auto -removes anything on the exclusion list.
This is the review/hand -offview for upper -level or the Thursday report seed.•
5) Add the steps for each AR chainAR Process Spreadsheet 
Friday, September 12, 2025 10:55 AM
   SAP S4HANA Training Page 647    
5) Add the steps for each AR chain
Ivan can export the chain definitions with steps. When you have that export:
Go to Chain_Steps and paste the steps (one row per step). Use these columns: 3.
Chain Name•
Step Order•
Step Name•
Step Type (picklist provided)•
Queue•
Command / Program•
Predecessor (Step Order)•
On Success Action (picklist)•
On Failure Action (picklist)•
Response Plan (Who/What/When)•
Fill Response Plan for each step (who is paged, exact action, and timing). 4.
If Ivan’s export format is different, paste it raw on a new tab and I’ll wire a mapping into Chain_Steps for 
you.
6) Build the Lucid “billing” upload in one click
Open Lucid_Upload_Jobs . It auto -builds rows from Chain_Steps and AR_Extract : •
object_id = Chain + zero -padded step order (unique) •
parent_id = Chain (groups steps) •
swimlane = Queue •
start_time_cst = First job time for the chain (from AR_Extract) •
depends_on = built from the predecessor step order •
notes = Response Plan •
Export this tab as CSVand load it to your Lucid template (“billing”).
That gives Kimmy dependencies, timing, swimlanes, and grouped chains in one import.•
7) Map dependencies & execution order
Your Predecessor (Step Order) on Chain_Steps feeds the depends_on in Lucid_Upload_Jobs . •
If a step has multiple predecessors, just comma -separate step orders (e.g., 10, 20 )—the upload will 
carry them over as a comma -list.•
8) Thursday report (big picture → drill down)
Use AR_Final for the list of AR chains and their times/holds. •
Use Chain_Steps for the drill-down detail + response plans. •
If you want, I can add a Pivot tab that summarizes by hour/queue and highlights gaps/conflicts for the 
Thursday send -up.•
Optional: how to pull this straight from the Cronacle tables
If you/DBA want to automate the source instead of pasting:
AR chain list (example skeleton)
   SAP S4HANA Training Page 648    
Daily Log
Monday, 9/8/2025
Began training (supplied by Kimmy via email):•
SAP S/4HANA Essential Training•
SAP S/4HANA: Beyond the Basics•
SAP Accounts Payable Boot Camp•
Tuesday, 9/9/2025
Continued training (supplied by Kimmy via email).•
Wednesday, 9/10/2025
SAP Training (GR55 & KSB1)
Learned GR55 & KSB1 transactions; focus on cost center hierarchies and sets.•
Expectation: move from learner → active contributor. •
Objectives:•
Understand GR55 (totals) vs. KSB1 (details).•
Walk Kimmy through transactions.•
Understand configuration of cost center hierarchies (GS01, GS03).•
Requirement Gathering Preparation
Purpose: capture business requirements for cost analysis.•
Practice:•
Show how cost center data is built (FI/CO postings → cost elements → cost centers → sets → 
hierarchy → reports).•
Explain fields, groupings, and navigation between totals and details.•
Cronacle Jobs –Accounts Receivable
Began documenting Cronacle job steps with Kimmy.•
Practice in SM37 to identify AR -related jobs and review logs. •
Practice Exercises Completed:
Cost Center Sets (KSH1/KSH2/KSH3) –created test and hierarchical sets. 1.
Ran GR55 reports with test set and compared to delivered set.2.
SM37 job monitoring for AR jobs.3.
Walkthrough preparation for requirement session with Tim.4.
Thursday, 9/11/2025
Drafted BRD for KSB1 Ref.Key1 visibility request; sent to Kimmy for review.•
Reviewed Cronacle documentation.•
Friday, 9/12/2025
Updated BRD documentation based on Kimmy’s guidelines and sent to Tim for sign -off •
Worked with Kimmy on list of Cronacle jobs.•
Monday, 9/15/2025
Loaded AR Cronacle jobs into a new sheet with job chain, frequency, and scheduled time.•
Reviewed and confirmed AR Cronacle job processes.•
Reached out to Matt Colegrove for feedback and next steps. (Out of Office)•
Completed SAP Accounts Receivable Bootcamp (LinkedIn).•
9/16/2025 -Ready is D49 Greg will create test steps enhancement in ALM 
Testcases and steps will be required for ALM: Due OED Wednesday
Testing to start wednesday -Thursday
See when they are freezing SAP –Quarter end
Testing in D, then Q, unit testing on thursday. UAT testing on Friday/monday
Coordinate with Tim to know he's ready for testing on friday EOD monday for production by 
thursday
Environment & Readiness
System : Ready in D49. •
Ownership : Greg will create test steps in ALM(no “enhancement” phrasing —just test 
cases & steps).•
Deliverables
Test cases and steps documented in ALM. •
Due Date : Wednesday EOD (9/17/2025) . •
Testing Timeline
Wednesday –Thursday (9/17 –9/18) : Begin testing in D49. •
Thursday (9/18) : Unit testing. •
Friday (9/19) –Monday (9/22) : UAT testing window. •
Thursday (9/25) : Target for production readiness. •
Dependencies & Coordination
Confirm SAP freeze schedule for quarter -end. •
Coordinate with Tim to ensure he is ready for testing by Friday EOD (9/19) and Monday 
(9/22) for UAT sign -off.•
Task Timeline (Cronacle –Accounts Receivable)
9/11: Outline critical AR Cronacle jobs → Greg drafts, Kimmy reviews. •
9/15: Compile completed list of critical AR jobs (deliverable due following day).•
9/17: Review job list with Kimmy; begin documenting job details.•
9/19: Review detailed documentation with Kimmy for accuracy.•
9/24: Upload job chain into Lucid; validate linkages.•
9/26: Final review; confirm completeness of AR Cronacle job documentation.•Weekly Summary 9/8 -9/12
Training & Skill Development
Completed multiple SAP trainings supplied by Kimmy
SAP S/4HANA Essential Training, Beyond the Basics, Accounts Payable Bootcamp, Accounts 
Receivable bootcamp••
Worked with SAP transactions, focusing on GR55 (totals) and KSB1 (details) reports to gain 
understanding into requirements gathering with Tim Alderson•
Requirements Gathering Preparation
Identified key fields (Ref.Key1) that will matter for business reconciliation efforts. •
Cronacle Documentation –Accounts Receivable
Began documenting AR Cronacle jobs with Kimmy, capturing job names, frequency, scheduled times, 
and step sequencing.•
Built a structured sheet to track AR jobs and chains•
Confirmed process with Kimmy and reached out to Matt Colegrove for feedback and next steps.•
Deliverables & Progress
Drafted and submitted a Business Requirements Document (BRD) for the KSB1 Reference Key 1 visibility 
request; revised based on Kimmy’s feedback to keep it business -focused.•
Produced an initial list of AR Cronacle jobs with metadata (frequency, timing, chain) and scheduled a 
timeline for progressive reviews:
9/17–Review list with Kimmy and start exposing details of each job. •
9/19–Validate details with Kimmy for correctness. •
9/24–Upload into Lucid with correct linkages. •
9/26–Final review for completeness of AR Cronacle jobs. ••
Next Steps
Finalize AR Cronacle job list by EOD Tuesday (9/16).•
Continue preparing walkthrough of GR55, KSB1, and cost center hierarchies for requirements gathering.•
Support Tim’s visibility request BRD through further review and refinement.•
Ensure progressive documentation of Cronacle steps stays on track with agreed milestones.•
Ways to improve
Focus on requirements not solution
Weekly Check -in
Set-up Approach and way to retain information
Pause and document where needed so that I can 
9/16/2025 -Ready is D49 Greg will create test steps enhancement in ALM 
Testcases and steps will be required for ALM: Due OED Wednesday
Testing to start wednesday -Thursday
See when they are freezing SAP –Quarter end
Testing in D, then Q, unit testing on thursday. UAT testing on Friday/monday
Coordinate with Tim to know he's ready for testing on friday EOD monday for production by 
thursdayKey Instructions from Your Lead
Requirement vs. Solution1.
Strip all “enhancement” and “solutioning” language from your BRD.•
Keep it strictly requirement -based (what the business needs, not how IT will solve it). •
Example: “The ability to identify which external system posting documents originated from” is correct 
phrasing.•
MTECH vs. MTECH22.
Don’t document assumptions. Remove references like “metch2.”•
Only document what’s been confirmed and ask Tim directly for clarification if needed.•
Scope Misstatement3.
Delete lines like “Apply enhancement to PORKGRP cost center group.”•
Keep scope statements global unless business explicitly narrows it. •
ALV Grid Knowledge4.
KSB1 and GR55 are ALV Grid -based. •
Expectation: you should run the report yourself and explore layout features (adding/removing fields, 
summing, filtering, exporting).•
 ou’ll be asked to walk through it live on screen , so practice ahead of time. •
Cronacle Steps5.
They’ll walk you through Cronacle jobs after lunch.•
Your responsibility: take notes, create a clean summarization, and send it back for review before you 
begin the task.•
What You Should Do Next
Edit BRD today: remove all solution/enhancement phrasing, narrow scope notes, and unclear references 
(MTECH2).•
Play in SAP (GR55/KSB1) : test the ALV grid, click every button, document what you discover. This will 
help when you walk them through it.•
Prepare to Summarize : keep your note -taking structured (steps, dependencies, frequency, exceptions) 
during the Cronacle walk -through. Send back a clean summary as deliverable.•
Ask Smart Clarifications : especially on the external system field usage (xref1_HD), confirm with Tim 
instead of assuming.•Daily Log
Tuesday, September 09, 2025 4:24 PM
   SAP S4HANA Training Page 649    
Requirement Gathering Notes
Project: SAP KSB1 Enhancement –Ref.Key (Head) Visibility (SR -102497)
Author: Greg Homstad
Date: 09/11/2025
Investigative Call Summary
Introduction
Met with Tim Alderson (Business Stakeholder –Group Controller, Beef & Pork Margin Accounting). •
Call also included Kimberly Nguyen (Staff Enterprise Data Architect) and Tricia McCoy (Sr. Manager, 
IT Finance).•
Purpose: Understand the business need for Ref.Key visibility in KSB1 and document functional 
requirements.•
Discovery Notes
Business Ask
Add Ref.Key (Head 1) (and optionally Ref.Key 2) to the KSB1 line -item display . •
Provide selection criteria for Ref.Key 1 so users can filter reports. •
Enable direct reconciliation of MTech2 batch identifiers (MTS) with SAP postings without drilling into 
document headers.•
Current Process
Users execute GR55 → ZCUL report group with: •
Value Type: 4 (Actual) •
Controlling Area: TYSN •
Cost Center Group: PORKGRP •
From GR55 drilldown, users select “Cost Centers: Actual Line Items” and then must: •
Double -click a document. 1.
Open Data Entry View . 2.
Click the hat icon (Display Document Header) . 3.
Locate Ref.Key (Head 1).4.
Layout change in KSB1 shows many header fields, but Ref.Key 1 and 2 are not available . •
Inputs / Parameters
GR55 / ZCUL report group.•
Value Type = 4 (actuals).•
Cost Center Group = PORKGRP (though could apply to any cost center).•
Fiscal Year = selection criteria.•
Outputs / Why It Matters
Ref.Key 1 indicates MTS batch identifiers from MTech2. •
Without visibility, users must drill into each header, slowing reconciliation.•
Visibility enables Finance to:•
Confirm what data has been sent to MTech2.•
Avoid duplicating amounts already processed.•
Improve traceability between SAP and MTech2.•Requirement Gathering –Tim Alderson
Wednesday, September 10, 2025 1:31 PM
   SAP S4HANA Training Page 650    
Improve traceability between SAP and MTech2.•
Challenges / Limitations
Manual effort: Must click into each header record to see Ref.Key. •
Traceability gap: Users cannot quickly balance SAP vs MTech2 totals. •
Performance: Large runs (e.g., full PORKGRP fiscal year) may be slow. •
Training: Users accustomed to header drilldowns will need updated SOPs. •
Stakeholders / Dependencies
Tim Alderson (Business Stakeholder): Needs visibility for reconciliation. •
Finance Users: Require confidence in cost center reports without extra clicks. •
IT / SAP Team: Must ensure no performance or data integrity issues. •
MTech2 Interface Owners: Dependent on Ref.Key for identifying batch postings. •
Clarifications
Why Ref.Key 1? Chosen by Kimmy for consistency; MTS batch identifiers are written there. •
Ref.Key 2?  ot strictly needed but could be “future -proofing.” Tim sees it as nice -to-have. •
Systems reconciled: SAP ECC (FI/CO) vs. MTech2 (Swine). •
Wrap -Up
Ref.Key 1 visibility in KSB1 line -item view is the primary requirement. •
Selection filter for Ref.Key 1 will significantly improve reconciliation. •
Optional Ref.Key 2 inclusion could add flexibility but is not critical. •
Next Step: Draft BRD with business/functional requirements, circulate for review, and confirm 
accuracy.•
Pain Points Identified
Time -consuming manual drilldowns.•
Limited visibility into interface processing.•
Risk of sending duplicate/incorrect data back to MTech2.•
Lack of reconciliation trust without direct Ref.Key visibility.•
Risks & Considerations
Performance Risk: Adding header fields could slow KSB1 execution for large groups. •
Data Integrity Risk: If Ref.Key values are inconsistently populated, reconciliation accuracy suffers. •
User Adoption Risk: Training required to adapt to new field/selection criteria. •
Change Management Risk: Misconfigured enhancement could disrupt GR55/KSB1. •
Dependency Risk: If MTech2 changes its batch mapping, usefulness of enhancement diminishes. •
   SAP S4HANA Training Page 651    
Step Description Expected Result
1 Log into SAP SAP loads successfully
2 Enter transaction code KSB1 KSB1 Selection screen displays
3 Enter parameters for report:
• Controlling Area: T S 
• Cost Center Group: PORKGRP
• Posting Date: 01/01/2025 –09/30/2025
ExecuteInput accepted, report displays
4 Navigate to Settings -> Layout ->Change and add:
• Ref.Key (Header)1
• Ref.Document  umber
• Posting Date
ConfirmOutput Grid displays required 
fields
5 Export KSB1 Report output to spreadsheet KSB1 spreadsheet file generated
6 Open exported KSB1 file File opens successfully; data 
columns visible
7 Copy values from Ref.Document Number column 
in KSB1 export
Navigate to SE16N -> Table BKPF
Parameters:
• Paste document numbers
• Company Code: 0001
• Posting Date: 01/01/2025 –09/30/2025Input accepted, BKPF data displays
8 Export BKPF results to spreadsheet BKPF results exported to 
spreadsheet
9 Open reconciliation workbook
Create two sheets titled KSB1 and BKPF
Paste exported dataWorkbook contains both datasets 
in separate sheets
10 Create concatenated key on KSB1 Sheet:
Insert new column =B2&C2 (B=Ref.Key(Header)1, 
C=Doc Number)Column populates with 
concatenated values for all rows
11 Create concatenated key of BKPF Sheet:
Insert new column =BKPF!AB2&BKPF!B2
(AB=Ref.Key(Header)1, B=Doc Number)Column populates with 
concatenated values for all rows
12 In KSB1 Sheet, add column Match with BKPF?:
=IF(ISNA(VLOOKUP(D2, BKPF!E:E, 1, 
FALSE)), "No Match", "Match")
Fill down for each rowEach row shows “Match” or “ o 
Match”
13 Count Matches and Mismatches:
• Missing? =COUNTIF(F:F, "No Match")
• Matched? =COUNTIF(F:F, "Match")Output displays totals. For this 
dataset:
• Matches = 4,014
•  o Matches = 0Testing -KSB1
Thursday, September 18, 2025 10:19 AM
   SAP S4HANA Training Page 652    
Step -by-Step Process & Responsibilities
1. SAP Navigation & Training
Open SAP and work with the trainer to navigate modules.•
Complete required SAP trainings.•
Gain hands -on practice with transactions (VA01, AR/AP). •
2. Requirement Gathering
Collect requirements for FI reporting.•
Document findings in detail.•
Review documentation with Kimmy.•
Obtain stakeholder sign -off. •
3. Testing
Support testing of requirements and reporting outputs.•
Validate results with stakeholders.•
Chronicle Jobs –AR Focus
Kimmy currently working on outlining Chronicle jobs.•
Assignment: Accounts Receivable –capture all processes except billing. •
Investigate:•
Job frequency and timing.•
How AR jobs trigger sequentially and produce transactional data.•
Ensure analytic layer can consume reporting outputs.•
Seek help from Ivan, Nandhi, or others with access if needed.•
Tomorrow’s Expectation
Be able to:•
Use SAP transactions (esp. VA01).•
Navigate SAP confidently.•
Review Chronicle assignment for AR (excluding billing).•
Capture full job sequence → reporting output. •
Architect’s Role
Own the end-to-end process : •
Clarify expectation for each step.•
Define output for every activity.•
Ensure sequential flow is well documented.•Kimmy's Expectations
Tuesday, September 09, 2025 10:59 AM
   SAP S4HANA Training Page 653    
https://www.linkedin.com/learning/sap -s-4hana -essential -training?u=
95314802
1h35m
SAP S/4 HANA
Benefits and Constraints of SAP S/4 HANA
Benefits
Eliminates information silos•
Single source of truth•
Better decision making with real -time reports •
Automates Core Processes•
Prioritizes security through roles•
Ensures compliance to government regulations. 
Automatically generates compliance reports○
Can monitor health and environment safety regulations○•
Constraints
High cost of ownership•
Years to implement, highly configurable. •
Complex End -User experience
Resistance to change○•
SAP S/4 HANA Essential Training
SAP S/4 HANA Modules
Line of Business Module
Accounting
Finance Financial Accounting 
(FI)General Ledger, Accounts Payable, Accounts 
Receivable
Finance Controlling (CO) Profit Center, Cost Center Accounting
R&D and Engineering Project System (PS) Project planning, monitoring, costing functionality
Logistics
Sourcing and 
Procurement, Supply 
ChainMaterials 
Management (MM)Purchasing and Inventory Management and 
Valuation
Manufacturing Production Planning 
(PP)Production order processing and material 
requirement planning for manufacturing
Sales Sales and Distribution 
(SD)Houses sales order processing and then shipping to 
customers
Manufacturing Quality Management 
(QM)Incoming In -process and Final Quality Inspections
Asset Managment Plant Maintenance 
(PM)Breakdown, Predictive, and Preventive 
maintenance functions that keep plants running
Human Resources
Human Resources Human Capital 
Management (HCM)Entire cycle of employee from new hire to 
termination
Modules are grouped within line of business (LoB)
Enterprise Structure in SAP S/4 HANA
SAP Clients 
Self contained business unit
Types of clients
Development –configuration and customization
QA –Further development changes tested
Production –End users login to this version, system of record
Log in to an SAP Client
Production Client –System of Record
Company –Unit where individual financial statements can be created
Company Code –Smallest unit where a set of accounts can be created
Plant Unit –Manufacturing facilities
Storage Location 
Purchasing Organization –purchasing and requisition 
Sales Organization –sales activity
Distribution Channel –Retail, wholesale
Division –One division SAP S/4HANA is an enterprise ERP system that centralizes data, eliminates silos, and provides a single 
source of truth for better decision -making through real -time reporting. It automates core processes, 
prioritizes security with role -based access, and supports compliance with government and safety 
regulations, though it carries high costs , long implementation times, and a complex user experience that 
can face resistance to change.
The platform spans multiple modules grouped by line of business , including Finance (FI for financial 
accounting, CO for controlling), Logistics (MM for materials, PP for production planning, SD for 
sales/distribution, QM for quality, PM for plant maintenance), R&D (PS for project systems), and HR 
(HCM for full employee lifecycle). These modules connect master data (people, places, objects) with 
transactional data (business activity). Enterprise structure is organized by clients (Dev, QA, Production), 
company codes, plants, storage, and sales/purchasing organizations.
Key functionalities include financial reporting via Universal Journal, cost and profitability tracking, 
production planning with BOMs and routings, materials and supplier management, quality control, plant 
inspections and maintenance, project planning, and human resource administration. SAP integrates AI 
through SAP Joule , enabling predictive replenishment, intelligent collections, sales order automation, 
and streamlined goods receipt processing.
Users interact via SAP GUI (desktop, transaction codes) or SAP Fiori (browser -based, tile apps, mobile -
friendly). Navigation uses transaction codes (e.g., MM01 create material), shortcuts ( /n, /o), and 
favorites. Reporting leverages transaction codes, selection criteria, multiple value ranges, and reusable 
variants. Overall, SAP S/4HANA offers robust automation, compliance, and analytics but requires 
significant investment and change management.
Training -Essential Training
Monday, September 08, 2025 8:09 AM
   SAP S4HANA Training Page 654    
Division –One division 
Master Data vs Transactional Data
Master Data –People, Places, Objects –Foundation to S4 HANA
Security Roles 
Every user mapped to security role –segregation of duties
Allow or deny access to transactions○
Allow or deny based on organization levels○•
Artificial Intelligence
SAP Joule –AI Copilot •
Joule has access to data from S4 HANA •
AI Roadmap
Master data Change requests○
Intelligent Collections○
Sales Order creation and completion/prioritization○
Predictive Replenishment○
Goods reciepts auto processing○•
Exploring SAP S/4HANA Modules
SAP Financial Accounting (FI)
Captures all financial transactions•
Tracks and reports on financial data •
One of the most used modules•
Universal Journal
Integrates Financial Accounting and Managerial Accounting••
General Ledger
Includes all company's financial transaction data•
Transactions in subledgers reconcile with GL in real time••
Sub Ledgers
Accounts Payable
Invoice, Credits, Payments, Supplier Reporting○•
Accounts Receivable, Fixed Assets
Customer Data, Invoice Creation, Customer Reporting, ○••
Asset Accounting
Fixed Assets
Small laptop computer, vehicle land○
Depreciation○
Sales○
Retirement○••
SAP Controlling (CO)
Used to plan and monitor operation costs•
Shows where money is being spent•
Actual vs planned costs
Profit center
Evaluates profitability of independent areas inside a company○•
Cost center
Procurement, HR, only Expenses of internal departments○•
Internal Orders
Manage cost for small internal projects or expenses○
Can record cost and revenue○•
Product Costing
Visibility into costs required to produce goods and services○•
Profitability analysis
Measures product profitability determined by region, customer, channel○••
SAP Production Planning (PP)
Help plan production of products
Aligns demand with procurement
Repetitive manufacturing models•
Discrete models, order based, customizable•
Process Manufacturing, recipe oriented••
BOM
Complete list of materials assemblies and need to manufacture a product••
   SAP S4HANA Training Page 655    
Complete list of materials assemblies and need to manufacture a product•
Routings
Which operations occur to be produced•
Schedule products •
Instructions to make that product••
Capacity Planning
Balance load between work centers ••
Material Requirement Planning 
Ensures material is available for production••
•
SAP Materials Management (MM)
Tracks material journey from manufacturer to customer 
Efficient handling of materials
Master Data
Material Master Records•
Business Partner Records for Suppliers•
Purchasing information records••
Physical Inventory
Periodic Inventory•
Cycle Counts••
SAP Sales and Distribution (SD)
Order to Cash Process•
SAP Quality Management (QM)
Quality Planning
Inspection Plans for raw materials to finished goods••
Quality Inspection
Unit quality is measured•
Results/ defects recorded••
Quality Controlling
Preventive actions•
Monitoring actions•
Corrective actions•
Supplier evaluation••
SAP Plant Maintenance (PM)
Inspection
Actual current condition of a production area••
Preventive Maintenance
Maintains ideal conditions of a production area••
Repair
Restores ideal conditions of production Area••
SAP Project System (PS)
Internal or External projects•
Work breakdown structure (WBS)
Amount of work, how long, costs••
SAP Human Capital Management (HCM)
Human Resources line of business•
Personnel Management 
Administration•
Benefits/Compensation Management•
Recruitment••
Personnel Time Management 
Scheduling time records•
Payroll••
Training and Events Management
Planning and managing training•
Personnel development••
SAP S/4HANA End User Navigation
SAP GUI vs Fiori
User Interface SAP GUI SAP Fiori
Navigation Windows, Menus, Toolbars, 
transaction codesTiles, Apps
Mobility Desktop Browser -based, mobile -friendly, responsive
End-User 
ExperienceHighly customizable; preferred by 
power usersCleaner, simpler design; easier for new 
users to digest
Logging in Using the SAP S/4 HANA GUI
Must be on company VPN
Click desired connection
Clients separate from dev -> prod
Menu Tree Navigation in SAP S/4 HANA
The folders are organized by business area
   SAP S4HANA Training Page 656    
Transaction Code Navigation in SAP S/4 HANA
Command Field
Function Transaction Code Example
Create MM01 Create a material
Change MM02 Change a material
Display MM03 Display a material
Custom Transactions
Begin with Y or Z•
Custom to the company•
User Menu and settings in SAP S/4HANA
New Users should turn tooltip on
Display Technical Names: shows the t -code next to the menu item
   SAP S4HANA Training Page 657    
Working with Favorites in SAP S/4HANA
Right click Favorites, enter transaction, continue
Icons, Buttons in SAP S/4HANA
/n -Navigates to a new transaction in same session 
/o -Opens new transaction in new session
SAP S/4HANA Reporting
Report Selection Criteria
Transaction Code ->Report Selection Screen -> Execute
Multiple Selection Button
Options to select single values, ranges
Creating Search Variants
   SAP S4HANA Training Page 658    
https://www.linkedin.com/learning/sap -s-4hana -beyond -the-basics?u=95314802
1h15m
/nex logs off system
Ctrl+y = highlight 
Key Takeaways / Summary
SAP's visual design and personal settings are highly customizable to enhance user experience.•
Advanced navigation techniques and shortcuts improve efficiency.•
Effective use of reporting tools and criteria helps in extracting meaningful insights from data.•
Creating and managing layouts, variants, and personal lists streamline repetitive tasks.•
Security and personal information management are crucial for maintaining system integrity.•
Customizing Visual Design
Themes: 
SAP offers a variety of themes to customize the visual design.•
Example: Belize Theme (least cluttered), SAP Signature Theme (icons replace words).•
To change themes: 
Go to More > SAP -GUI settings and actions > Options. 1.
Select a theme from the dropdown.2.
Click Apply, OK, then log off and log back on.3.••
Color and Font Customization: 
Change colors under Colors in System.•
Change font for better readability.••
Personal Options
Technical Names: 
Display transaction codes in the menu tree.•
To enable: Extras > Settings > Display Technical Names.••
Tool Tips: 
Show tool tips for icons.•
To enable: More > SAP GUI Settings and Actions > Options > Interaction Design > Notifications > 
Show Tool Tip on Focus Change.••
Keys within Dropdown Lists: 
Display keys for dropdown list options.•
To enable: More > SAP GUI Settings and Actions > Options > Interaction Design > Visualization 
1 > Show keys within dropdown lists.••
Security and Personal Information
Changing Password: 
Two methods: 
Before logging in: Enter client, user, password, then click New Password.1.
After logging in: System > User Profile > User Data > Password.2.•
Note: Password policies vary by company.••
Maintaining Personal Address Information: 
Edit personal details under System > User Profile > User Data > Address tab.•
Add mobile phone number; email changes are restricted to administrators.••
User Profile Defaults
Localization Settings: 
Set default language, decimal format, date format, time format, and time zone.•
To change: System > User Profile > User Data > Defaults tab.••
User Profile Parameters
Auto -populating Fields: 
Set parameters for frequently used fields.•
Example: Sales organization parameter ID VKO.•
To set: System > User Profile > User Data > Parameters tab > Enter parameter ID and value.••
Setting a Default Printer
Printer Settings: 
Set default printer for physical outputs.•
To set: System > User Profile > User Data > Defaults tab > Spool control area.••
Advanced Navigation
Using Function Keys
Keyboard Shortcuts: 
Example: F1 for Help, Shift + F3 to Log Off.•
Right -click to view available function keys in any transaction.••
System Information Dropdown
Navigational Aid: 
Shows current transaction and client.•
Useful for differentiating between multiple sessions and clients.••
Copying and Pasting
In Reports: 
Highlight columns/rows, use Ctrl + C to copy, Ctrl + V to paste.••
In Transactions: 
Use Ctrl + Y to change cursor, highlight, then Ctrl + C to copy.••
Using SAP Help
General Help: 
SAP Help Portal for transaction instructions.••
Field -Specific Help: 
Press F1 in any field for Performance Assistant.••
Creating SAP Desktop Shortcuts
Shortcut Creation: 
Right -click transaction in menu tree, select Create Shortcut on Desktop.•
Example: ME21N for creating purchase orders.••
Setting SAP Start Transactions
Start Transaction: 
Set a transaction to open directly upon login.•
To set: Extras > Set Start Transaction > Enter transaction code.••Key Takeaways
Core Value : SAP S/4 HANA centralizes enterprise data into a single source of truth , breaking down silos 
and supporting compliance, automation, and real -time decision -making.•
Benefits vs. Constraints : •
Benefits → automation, compliance reporting, role -based security, AI integration. •
Constraints → high cost, complex end -user experience, long implementations, change resistance. •
Modules : Cover all major business lines —Finance (FI, CO), Logistics (MM, PP, SD, QM, PM), HR (HCM), 
R&D (PS) —linking master data (people, places, objects) to transactional data (activities).•
Enterprise Structure : Hierarchy flows from Client → Company Code → Plant → Storage/Org Units , with 
Dev/QA/Prod clients supporting configuration, testing, and production.•
Navigation & UI : •
SAP GUI→ transaction codes, customizable but complex. •
SAP Fiori → browser -based, mobile, tile -driven, more intuitive for new users. •
Reporting : Robust reporting with variants, filters, totals/subtotals, layouts, and drill -downs ; 
background execution improves performance for large reports.•
Customization & Personalization : Themes, tooltips, technical names, personal defaults, parameters, 
and desktop shortcuts enhance usability.•
Security : Role -based access control ensures segregation of duties; users manage passwords and limited 
personal info.•
AI (SAP Joule) : Early use cases include predictive replenishment, intelligent collections, automated 
sales orders, and goods receipt processing .•
What You Learned
ERP Power : SAP S/4 HANA is not just accounting software —it’s a comprehensive enterprise ERP system
integrating finance, logistics, HR, projects, and production.1.
Structured Organization : Understanding clients, company codes, and plants is key to navigating 
enterprise structures.2.
Data Types : Clear distinction between master data (static foundation) and transactional data (dynamic 
business activity).3.
User Experience : 4.
Advanced users rely on SAP GUI and shortcuts. •
Broader user base benefits from SAP Fiori’s clean, mobile -friendly design . •
Efficiency Tools : Navigation tricks (/n, /o, transaction codes), personal lists, layouts, and search variants 
save time and streamline workflows .5.
Reporting Skills : How to filter, sort, aggregate, and export reports , plus background processing for 
heavy tasks.6.
Customization & Security : You can personalize your workspace (themes, defaults, parameters) while 
respecting company -wide security roles and compliance policies .7.
AI Integration : SAP is moving toward embedded AI copilots (Joule) that support predictive, automated 
decision -making.8.
Practical Skills : You now know how to: 9.
Log in and navigate clients.•
Use transaction codes (MM01, VA05, etc.).•
Set defaults, manage passwords, and update personal info.•
Run, customize, and share reports effectively.•Training -Beyond the Basics 
Tuesday, September 09, 2025 9:12 AM
   SAP S4HANA Training Page 659    
To set: Extras > Set Start Transaction > Enter transaction code.•
SAP Transaction Search Menu
Finding T -Codes: 
Use Find button or transaction code search_sap_menu.•
Ensure technical names are displayed for accurate searches.••
Using Wildcards
Wildcard Searches: 
Use asterisks (*) for partial information searches.•
Example: Minnesota to find business partners with "Minnesota" in the name. ••
Creating Personal Lists
Personal Lists: 
Simplify repetitive selections in fields.•
Example: Order types in VA01 transaction.••
Command Field Shortcuts
Common Shortcuts: 
Ctrl + / to return cursor to command field.•
Slash commands: /N for new transaction, /O for new session, /NEX to log off without saving.••
Finding Customized Transaction Codes
Custom T -Codes: 
Use SE16 to look up table TSTC for custom transactions starting with Y or Z.••
Reporting
Using the Multiple Selection Tool
Selection Criteria: 
Specify multiple single values, ranges, exclude values/ranges.•
Example: VA05 for list of sales orders.••
Creating a Search Variant
Search Variants: 
Save repetitive selection criteria for reports.•
Example: VA05 for sales orders by a specific customer and material.••
Deleting a Search Variant
Variant Deletion: 
Remove unnecessary search variants.•
Example: Deleting AO Orders variant in VA05.••
Running Reports in Background
Background Execution: 
Run large reports without disrupting workflow.•
Example: VA05 executed in background, results viewed in SP01.••
Sorting Reports
Sorting Data: 
Sort by numerical or date fields.•
Example: Sort by net value or document date in VA05.••
Filtering Reports
Narrowing Results: 
Apply filters to drill down into data.•
Example: Filter by sold -to party and net value in VA05. ••
Totaling and Subtotaling Reports
Aggregate Data: 
Total and subtotal columns for comprehensive insights.•
Example: Total net value and subtotal by material in VA05.••
Freezing Columns
Fixed Columns: 
Keep specific columns visible while scrolling.•
Example: Freeze Sold -To Party column in VA05. ••
Drilling Down in Reports
Detailed View: 
Access and edit underlying data directly from report results.•
Example: Drill down into sales order details in VA05.••
Creating a Global Layout
Shared Layouts: 
Save and share report layouts globally.•
Example: Create and save LinkedIn Learning layout in VA05.••
Deleting a Layout
Layout Management: 
Remove outdated or unnecessary layouts.•
Example: Delete LinkedIn Learning layout in VA05.••
Sharing Reports
Export and Share: 
Export reports to Excel for easy sharing.•
Example: Export VA05 report results to XLSX.••
Printing Reports
Print Options: 
Print reports to physical or digital formats.•
Example: Print VA05 report to PDF.••
   SAP S4HANA Training Page 660    
SAP Reference Guide
Tuesday, September 09, 2025 1:21 PM
   SAP S4HANA Training Page 661    
   SAP S4HANA Training Page 662    
   SAP S4HANA Training Page 663    
   SAP S4HANA Training Page 664    
   SAP S4HANA Training Page 665    
Get started with core transactions in SAP | LinkedIn Learning
Introduction
Get started with core transactions in SAP
Objectives
Enter and Review types of AR invoices1.
Enter manual cash receipts 2.
Process bank files –US lockbox format 3.
Review/Audit posted invoices & basic AR reporting4.
Scenarios Covered
Non -Sales Order Invoice Entry
Document display, change & Cancel/Reverse○•
Sales Order BIlling / Invoice Entry
Document Display, Chance & cancel/reverse○•
Manually post a cash receipt & clear open invoices
List, Post, Clear AR documents○•
Bank File Proecessing –US Lockbox Electronic Processing
Import file, post, clear open items○•
Basic Reporting
Account Balance & LIne item display○
AR age analysis○•To Do
Create a manual invoiceTraining -SAP Accounts Receivable Boot Camp
Wednesday, September 10, 2025 8:51 AM
   SAP S4HANA Training Page 666    
AR age analysis○
Non -Sales Order Invoice Entry
Manual AR Invoice Entry
Transaction –FB70 –Enter AR invoice •
Scenario
Enter manual customer invoice for domestic product revenue not linked to an SAP sales 
order○•
Master Data•
FB70 OR SAP Menu -> Accounting -> Accounts Receivable -> Document Entry -> FB70 –Invoice 
transaction
Select Transaction, default invoice
Enter Customer #
Enter Invoice Date (different than posting date)
Enter Reference from customer
Enter currency
Check Calculate Tax button to validate the customer details
Enter Amount for invoice and text (Header Information)
Enter G/L acct and amount to balance, tax jurisdiction code
Press Enter
Double click amount and click prof seg. Then enter profit center for assignment, continue and it will fill 
rest of details
Back to invoice, Balance should be zero if debits equal credits
Payment tab -> pay terms Baseline date is dependent on payment terms
Post and look at document overview. 
Manual Invoice Created.
Manual AR invoice display change and reverse
FB03 –Display AR Account Document
FB02 –Change AR Account Document
Scenario
Display/update text in existing AR invoice•
Change payment terms in existing AR invoice•
Master Data
AR Invoice document posted•
Display & Change
Go to document and click on Display or Change•
AR Invoice Reverse
FB08 –Reverse AR invoice document
Scenario
Manually reverse an existing AR invoice posted in error•
Master Data
AR invoice document posted•
Sales Order Invoice Entry
Display sales order invoice related data
VA03 –Sales order display
Scenario
Display existing sales order•
Navigate to accounting & invoice relevant fields in the sales order and document flow•
Master Data
SAP Menu -> Logistics -> Sales & Distribution -> sales -> Order -> VA03 Display
Enter Order Number
Header detail and Item detail here
Header:
Order Type
Sales Area
Distribution, channel, division
Header conditions apply to items in the order. 
Status 
Sales Order Orientation Review
Document Flow + subsequent documents•
Delivery -> Billing -> Invoice -> Accounting Document •
Header Tabs
Sales Tab –Order type, sales org data, currency ○
Accounting tab –assignment group, company code ○
Conditions tab –Pricing conditions and header specific charges ○
Status tab –completion status of the Order and Invoice ○•
Item Detail Tabs
Billing Doc Tab –Payer, Incoterms, Payment Terms, Billing date ○
Conditions Tab –Quantity & price per unity, tax ○
Account Assignment –Profit Center, Profitability Segment ○•
   SAP S4HANA Training Page 667    
Account Assignment –Profit Center, Profitability Segment ○
Billing Document
Tax Classification of Customer and Material○
Details copied from Sales orders and related docs. ○•
Create a sales order billing document
VF04 –Process Billing Due List or VF01 –Create Doc
Scenario –Create invoice from sales orders relevant for billing
Display billing doc and related accounting docs for AR invoice
Logistics -> sales and distribution -> billing ->billing document -> billing due list
Display, change, and reverse billing documents
VF03 –Display single billing document
VF02 –Change billing document
FB02 –Change AR Account Document
Scenario –Display billing doc linked to sales order
Navigate to related accounting posting
Change text on billing doc and accounting doc
Master Data: Billing document
1. Enter billing Document
2. Look at document flow
3. Display header details
4. Display accounting document
VF11 –Cancel Billing Doc
Scenario –invoice requires cancellation
Action: manually reverse/cancel invoice in error linked to sap sales order/billing doc
Master data –billing doc
Basic Accounts Receivable Reporting
Display customer balances and line items
FD10N –Display customer Account Balance
FBL5N –Display customer line items
Scenario –Display summary customer account balances by fiscal year including debit and credit 
balances. Drill down to line -item detail
Quickfilter overdue items 
Accounting -> Accounts Receivable -> Account
Report loads and balance credits/debits. Double click for breakdown
Display AR open item age analysis report
Accounting -> Financial Accounting -> Accounts Receivable -> Information System -> Reports for 
accounts receivable accounting -> Customers: Items.
S_ALR_87012168 –Customer Age analysis open items
Scenario –Display customer balance by age buckets
Example –30, 60, 90 days due for payment
Dril down line items from an age bucket
Drag & drop characteristics
Manual Cash Receipts and Clearing
Manual AR cash receipt
F-28 Post Incoming Payment
Scenario –Process incoming cash receipt to clear open AR invoice
Clear and match AR open items
F-32 Clear customer open items
Scenario –match and clear two customer open items for which no payment is required in order to keep 
the customer open item statement easy to manage
Lockbox Electronic File Processing
Import lockbox electronic file from the bank
FLB2 –Import Lockbox file
FLBP –Post Lockbox file
FEBA_LOCKBOX –Reprocess or FLB1
Scenario –Import lockbox file for checks received at bank, display data & lockbox journal entry
Import Lockbox Summary Process
   SAP S4HANA Training Page 668    
SAP Menu ->Accounting -> Financial Accounting -> Banks -> Input -> Lockbox ->FLB2 –Import
You can Import or post in this program 'Main Lockbox Program'
Enter lockbox file upload, execute•
Import Log•
FEBA_LOCKBOX –Reprocess •
Matching and post -processing
F-32 –Clear Open Items
Scenario –The Lockbox bank file has been imported but some payments although Posted to the 
Customer Account, cannot be auto matched to Invoice line items•
Use the manual matching process to clear an open invoice of $6,000 with 4 payments from the 
bank lockbox•
Bank Account Flow
Bank Account Process is company Specific
Depending on internal processes the flow between bank, clearing accounts and final bank 
accounts will vary•
Process is specific to US around check payments however the principles are the same in SAP has 
transactions to support each process•
Summary
Enter and Review different types of AR invoices in SAP•
Enter Manual cash receipts in SAP •
Process Automated Lockbox receipts in SAP•
Review & Audit posted invoices, open items & basic AR reporting•
Next Steps
Practice methods •
Experiment with more complex invoices and actual bank files •
Research the bank accounts flows/files used•
   SAP S4HANA Training Page 669    
Get up to speed on accounts payable in SAP | LinkedIn Learning
Accounts Payable Overview | SAP Help Portal
Accounts Payable Bootcamp –Invoice 
Processing in SAP
Main Topics
1. Non -Purchase Order (Non -PO) Invoice Entry 
(FB60)
Definition : Invoice not linked to a purchase order. •
Transaction Code : FB60–Enter Vendor Invoice. •
Document Type : KR(defaults when using FB60). •
Example : Office supplies invoice. •
Key Data Required : •
Vendor•
Company code (e.g., 3000)•
P&L account (requires cost center ) •
Tax code (dummy code used in demo: I0 –tax exempt) •
Important Fields : •
Invoice Date → baseline for payment terms. •
Posting Date → accounting posting date. •
Header section: vendor, invoice amount, tax code.•
Line items: debit P&L, cost center, text/description.•
Simulation : Check debits/credits balance before posting. •
Result : Document number assigned (19 series for non -PO 
invoices).•
2. Display, Change, Reverse Non -PO Invoice
Display (FB03) : View posted invoice, header details (audit trail of 
who, when, how).•
Change (FB02) : •
Can update payment terms (e.g., from 30 to 45 days). •
Can change/add text for vendor or expense line items.•
Reverse (FB08) : •
Creates contra document , does not delete original. •
Requires reversal reason (e.g., 01 –reversal in current period). •
New reversal document posted (17 series, type KA).•
3. Purchase Order (PO) Orientation (ME23N)
Transaction Code : ME23N–Display Purchase Order. •
Sections : •
Header : status (ordered, delivered, invoiced), org data (company 
code), payment terms & currency.•
Item Overview : line items, account assignment type (e.g., K = cost 
center).•
Item Details : delivery and invoice tabs, tax code, goods receipt 
relevance.•
PO History Tab : •
Navigate between PO, goods receipt , invoice receipt , and 
accounting postings .•
Example: 5 printers ordered ($500), 300 invoiced, 200 pending.•
4. Three -Way Match Invoice (MIRO)
Definition : Matches PO, Goods Receipt , and Vendor Invoice . •
Transaction Code : MIRO . •
Scenario : Final invoice for 2 printers ($200). •
Process : •
Enter PO number → system pulls PO data. •
Open goods receipts shown at bottom.•
Enter invoice amount, system balances with GR/IR account.•
Payment terms tab shows baseline and due dates.•
Result : Document posted (51 series, type RE). •
PO History : Now fully invoiced (5 ordered, 5 received, 5 invoiced). •
5. Display, Change, Reverse PO Invoice
Display (MIR4) : Single invoice. •
List (MIR5) : Multiple invoices for given parameters. •
Change : Cannot alter logistics invoice, only financial document . 
Example: manually block invoice for payment.•
Reverse (MR8M) : Cancel PO -linked invoice with contra document 
(audit trail maintained).•
6. Vendor Account Reporting
Display Balance (FK10N) : •
Shows debit, credit, cumulative balance across fiscal periods.•
Drill down by column → context -sensitive line item detail. •
Training -SAP Accounts Payable Boot Camp
Tuesday, September 09, 2025 11:15 AM
   SAP S4HANA Training Page 670    
Drill down by column → context -sensitive line item detail. •
Display Line Items (FBL1N) : •
One vendor or multiple vendors.•
Includes filters (e.g., overdue items only).•
Useful columns: due date symbol , net due date , days in arrears , 
payment block .•
7. AP Open Item Age Analysis
Report : Due date analysis for open items. •
Breakdown : Age buckets (e.g., 30/60/90 days overdue). •
Interactive Features : Drill down by bucket, filter, and sort (e.g., 
highest overdue amounts).•
Key Insight : Cannot drill into calculated totals , only individual 
buckets.•
8. Manual Payment (F -53)
Transaction Code : F-53 –Post Outgoing Payment. •
Scenario : Bank payment already processed; record in SAP to clear 
vendor.•
Process : •
Select vendor & open item.•
Enter bank account (credit), vendor (debit), payment reference, 
amount.•
Assign payment to open item → clear it. •
Result : Payment document posted (type KZ), open item cleared. •
9. Clear & Match Open Items (F -44)
Use Case : Contra items (e.g., invoice & reversal) clutter open 
items but no payment required.•
Transaction Code : F-44. •
Process : Select open items → system posts a clearing document 
only (no journal).•
Impact : Removes items from open list, improves reporting clarity. •
10. Automatic Payment Run (F110)
Purpose : Automatically pay multiple vendors/invoices. •
Steps :•
Parameters : Run date, ID, company code, payment method (e.g., 
ACH), vendor range.1.
Proposal : Preview payments, review selection, delete & rerun if 
needed.2.
Review : Proposal list/log for audit; check invoices 
included/excluded.3.
Execute Payment Run : Post final payment documents. 4.
Controls : •
Proposal can be repeated; payment run can only be executed 
once.•
Segregation of duties: one person creates proposal, another 
executes payments.•
Outputs : Payment medium (checks, ACH file), vendor clearing, 
accounting entries.•
11. Course Summary & Next Steps
Covered:•
Non -PO & PO invoice entry•
Three -way match •
Display/change/reverse•
Manual & automatic payments•
Vendor reporting (balances, line items, age analysis)•
Key Recommendation : Practice in test SAP system to retain 
knowledge.•
Next Steps : •
Explore complex scenarios (bank charges, multiple payment 
methods).•
Research company -specific payment integration methods. •
Use appendix quick reference (all transaction codes).•
Key Takeaways
Non -PO vs PO Invoices : FB60 (manual, KR doc type) vs MIRO (PO -
linked, RE doc type).•
Three -Way Match : Ensures control by matching PO, GR, and 
invoice.•
Reversals : Always create contra documents, never delete (audit 
trail maintained).•
Reporting Tools : FK10N (balance), FBL1N (line items), Age Analysis 
for overdue buckets.•
Payments : •
Manual: F -53 (cash already paid). •
Clearing: F -44 (match off contra items). •
Automatic: F110 (proposal + execution with segregation of duties).•
Best Practice : Always review proposals, ensure segregation of 
duties, and use SAP reporting to monitor due items and vendor •
   SAP S4HANA Training Page 671    
duties, and use SAP reporting to monitor due items and vendor 
balances.
   SAP S4HANA Training Page 672    
SAP Accounts Payable –Transaction Code Reference
Non -Purchase Order Invoice
Transaction Code Description Comment
FB60 Enter Manual Invoice Enter basic non -PO invoice
FB02 Document Change Change limited fields (e.g., text & payment terms, blocking)
FB03 Document Display Display a posted AP invoice document
FB08 Document Reverse Cancel/reverse a basic non -PO invoice (error correction)
Purchase Order Invoice
Transaction Code Description Comment
ME23N Display Purchase Order Review invoice -related fields
MIRO Automatic Invoice (for PO) Enter invoice 3 -way matched to a PO
MR8M Cancel (reverse PO invoice) Cancel/reverse a PO -matched invoice (error 
correction)
MIR4 Display Invoice Display a PO -linked invoice
MIR5 Display List of Invoices Display a list of PO -linked invoices
Basic Accounts Payable Reports
Transaction 
CodeDescription Comment
FK10N Vendor a/c Balance Display a vendor summary account balance
FBL1N Vendor Line Items Drill down & analyze vendor open & cleared invoices
S_ALR_87012078 Age Analysis for Open 
ItemsAge Analysis Report –view open invoices in “Age 
Buckets”
Manual Payments & Clearing Open Items
Transaction Code Description Comment
F-53 Manual Outgoing Payment Post a manual payment
F-44 Clear Vendor Open Items Clear/match vendor open items (no journal posted)
Automated Mass Payment Run
Transaction 
CodeDescription Comment
F110 Automatic Payment 
RunCreate payment proposal, execute payment run, integration 
via bankKR= Vendor invoice (non -PO). •
RE= Vendor invoice (PO -related). •
KZ= Vendor payment.•
KA= Reversal document type.•Transaction Codes –A/P
Tuesday, September 09, 2025 2:35 PM
   SAP S4HANA Training Page 673    
CSKS –Table –Cost Center Masterdata
A set is a reusable grouping of cost centers. It ties into the hierarchy by acting as nodes or branches in 
the standard cost center tree. In reporting, sets allow us to pull the right scope of data —in GR55 they 
define which cost centers are included in a summarized report, and in KSB1 they let us filter the detailed 
line items to match that same grouping.”SAP Cost Center Reporting Notes
1. GR55 –Cost Center Activity Report (ZCUL)
Transaction: GR55 •
Report Group: ZCUL (Cost Center Activity Report) •
Controlling Area: TYSN •
Cost Center Group: PORKGRP •
Other Parameters: fiscal year, posting periods, plan vs. actual, etc. •
Value Type: 4 (Actual) •
 Provides summarized activity and cost data by cost center .
2. How to Familiarize Yourself with GR55
Scan which cost centers are grouped under PORKGRP. •
Identify major cost elements/activity types (labor, materials, overhead). •
Compare actual vs. plan values (if available). •
Drill down into cost elements to see data sources. •
Note recurring fields: cost center, activity type, cost element, amounts, quantities.•
⚡This gives you a high -level picture of cost center activity.
3. KSB1 –Display Actual Cost Line Items for Cost Centers
Transaction: KSB1 •
Shows individual postings (line -item detail) to a cost center. •
Key fields: document number, posting date, reference, user, cost element, amount. •
Can filter by Controlling Area (TYSN), cost center group, fiscal year, cost elements . •
 This is your transaction -level source data .
4. Relationship Between GR55 (ZCUL) and KSB1
GR55 (ZCUL): Aggregated totals at the cost center level. •
KSB1: Line-item postings that add up to those totals. •
Think of it as:
GR55 = “What are the costs?” (summary by category/center) •
KSB1 = “Where do they come from?” (supporting transactions) •
5. Why This Matters for Requirement Gathering (Tim Alderson)
Business users may want summary reports (GR55) but also need the ability to trace back to detail 
(KSB1) for validation/audit.•
Key requirements to capture:•
Which fields matter most (cost element, cost center, quantities, amounts, documents). •
How users expect to navigate between totals and line items . •
What period ranges, versions (plan/actual), or groupings they rely on. •
✅Bottom line: Run GR55 (ZCUL) with PORKGRP for totals, then use KSB1 to reconcile back to individual 
postings.
6. Sets in SAP and Their Role
What is a Set?
A Set= reusable grouping of cost centers (or groups). •
Created/managed with GS01 (create) , GS03 (display) . •
Stored in table CSKS (Cost Center Master Data). •
Think of it as a named bucket of cost centers you can reference across reports. •
Sets & Hierarchy
Standard Hierarchy (0001): Mandatory structure containing all cost centers in a controlling area. •
Within it, groups can be created to represent decision -making, responsibility, or management areas . •
A Setcan serve as a node in the hierarchy (e.g., PORKGRP).•
Analogy:
Hierarchy = Tree (overall structure)•
Sets = Branches/nodes you can reuse in the tree•
Sets & GR55
GR55 depends on sets.•
When running GR55:•
Select Controlling Area + Cost Center Group (Set) . •
The report pulls all cost centers in that set and aggregates totals.•
Without sets, GR55 wouldn’t know which cost centers to include. •
Sets & KSB1
KSB1 doesn’t use sets directly, but you can filter by cost center group (set) . •
Selecting PORKGRP in KSB1 shows all postings from cost centers in that set . •
Ensures detail (KSB1) reconciles with totals (GR55) . •
Key Takeaway
Sets : reusable groups of cost centers.•
Hierarchy : organizes cost centers and sets into a controlling tree. •
GR55 : summarizes totals using sets/hierarchy.•
KSB1 : drills into detailed postings and can filter by the same sets.•
Cost Center Reporting
Wednesday, September 10, 2025 10:04 AM
   SAP S4HANA Training Page 674    
 Together, they give both summary + traceability , which is essential for requirement gathering and 
business reporting.
   SAP S4HANA Training Page 675    
Hierarchy –Tree structure representing all cost centers belonging to a controlling area from a 
controlling perspective
Structure –combined cost centers into groups then create hierarchies from groups by combining groups 
according to decision making area, area of responsibility, or management area
Comprises all cost centers for a given period 
Sets
GS01 –Create Set
GS03 –Display Set
Table CSKS  to create set for cost center in gs01
Standard Hierarchy 0001
For the purpose of Overhead Cost Controlling (CO -OM), cost centers are grouped 
together in decision, control, and responsibility units. In order to map this structure, the 
cost center standard hierarchy is created. Each level of the hierarchy is a cost center 
group, cost centers and nodes can be assigned to each hierarchy level.
The cost center group is a way of dividing cost centers from an organizational 
perspective for evaluation purposes or to establish rules that apply to for all members 
this cost center group. The cost center type is a way of dividing cost centers based on 
their function within the company. In contrast to this cost center groups can be defined 
to divide cost centers. These groupings are organizational divisions of the company, and 
each has a defined cost responsibility. To integrate cost centers into the organization, 
each one must be assigned to a node in the standard hierarchy. A multilevel hierarchy 
can be defined for cost responsibility areas. Other cost center groupings (which are not a 
part of the standard hierarchy) can also be defined for evaluation purposes, and these 
can be grouped together or refined through hierarchical assignments.For the cost center standard hierarchy•
Cost centers•
Inactive cost centers•
Cost center groups•
Standard Hierarchy
Wednesday, September 10, 2025 10:53 AM
   SAP S4HANA Training Page 676    
CRONACLE
https://tysononline.sharepoint.com/:f:/s/FinanceTrainingSite/EjBj3Eh3mplMpaK_iboP68MBrPwhM2jGr
xHd1iwKn5HrGw?email=Greg.Homstad%40tyson.com&e=heZoVs
INTRODUCTION
WHAT IS CRONACLE
Cronacle is designed to help automate tasks based on factors like date, time, events and other triggering 
methods.•
It helps automate workflows, reduces the need for manual kick -offs. •
OVERVIEW
Process Definitions –A process definition is like a template for a specific process you want to automate. 
A process definition includes everything RunMyJobs needs to do a particular unit of work, including 
input files, output directories, scheduling, and any required credentials.
Processes –A process is a unit of work based on a Process Definition.
Queues–Queues move processes onto Process Servers. When a process is submitted, it is assigned to a 
Queue, and that Queue eventually executes the process on a Process Server. You can use a queue to 
balance load between different Process Servers. You can also use a Queue to switch to a different 
Process Server if the target Process Server is unavailable.
Process Servers –Process Servers are responsible for running and monitoring processes. They run 
processes in local and remote systems. Process Servers host services, which allow processes of different 
types to be run and are used to connect to remote systems, like SAP, Windows and UNIX systems.
ENVIRONMENTS
Environment Application Banner
Development SAPDQ1 Green
QA SAPQQ1 Yellow
Production SAPPA1 Red
There are three different environments for Cronacle.
NEW TERMINOLOGY
Old Term New Term
Job Process
Job Definition Process Definition
Job Chain Process Chain
Monitoring Job Monitoring Process
Job Status Tab on Definition Process Status
NAMING CONVENTIONS
Format:
ZPPP_CC_XXXXXXXXX
Identifier•
Process Code•
Client•
Description•
Example: ZFAR_S4_DOC_COUNTS
CREATING A JOB IN SAP
For this example, use the following data in Q41:
Program: ZTFIR_DOC_COUNTS •
Variant: FINANCIALS •
Batch User ID: BATCH_FAR •
SAP Job Name: ZFAR_S4_DOC_COUNTS •
Steps:
Make sure selection Screen variant is created first.•
Go to SM36 . •
Enter your job name and press Enter on your keyboard.•
Fill in USER , ABAP PROGRAM and VARIANT fields. •
Click the SAVE button. •
NOTE: Username should always be a BATCH -ID. •
Verify the info is correct and click the green back button.•
You must click the save button, then completely back out of SM36 before trying to create a second job. •
VERIFY THE JOB
Go to SM37 . •
Enter the new job name and an asterisk for username.•
Click Execute . •
The Job must say scheduled . •
JOB COUNT
After creating the job, you need to get the JOBCOUNT ID . Two ways:
First way
Go to SE16 and table TBTCP . •
Enter the job name.•
Second way
Go to SM37 , enter the job name and asterisk in the username field. •
Click Execute . •
Double -click the job name. •
Click on job details and the ID is displayed in the popup.•
CREATE A PROCESS DEFINITION IN CRONACLE
Click on Process Definitions . •
Search for a similar job by using the search bar and typing in "ZFAR_S4" . •
Choose a similar job to yours and right -click. Select Duplicate . •
In the pop -up, fill in the name and description fields. Use the same name as your job in SAP. •
Make sure the partition and application fields are correct, update if not.•
In the Documentation tab, type in the SAP program and variant used. •
PARAMETERS
You can set up Parameters to determine how and who the job notifies if it fails.
Notification options:
P_SEVERITY –‘W’ or ‘C’ Warning (Email) or Critical (Page and Email) •
P_GROUP_CODE –Your Monitoring Notification group (EMG) •
P_AUTO_ACK – es = If Critical, don’t require operator follow up •
P_MESSAGE_TEXT –Override default message text and send custom message •
P_NO_CHAIN_ERROR –TRUE = notify only on failed Process, not Chains or Steps •
P_TOP_JOB_NOTIFY_ONLY –TRUE = notify only on the top -level Chain or Process •
P_EMAIL_LIST –Required with P_EMAIL_FILENAME. List of email addresses separated by ; •
P_EMAIL_FILENAME –Required with P_EMAIL_LIST. Filename(s) to attach to email (e.g., stdout.log ) •
In the Parameters tab:
Fill in JOBNAME with the SAP Job name. •
Fill in JOBCOUNT with the JOBCOUNT ID. •
Click Save & Close . •
Return to Process Definitions , search for your new Cronacle job. You should now see your new Process 
Definition.
SCHEDULE PROCESS DEFINITION
To schedule, right -click and select Submit . •
In the Parameters tab, fill in the SAP System and SAP Client fields. •
To set up a custom schedule, understand:
Time Windows –The actual time when the process is allowed to run.
Examples: Monday –Friday, Thursdays 8AM –Noon. •
Submit Frame –How often you want the process to run.
Examples: Every hour, every 10 minutes, every month.•
Steps:
In the Time and Dates tab, select frequency, start time, and recurrence. •
Use Time Window for detailed scheduling. •
In the Control tab, select the Queue. •
Review everything in the Submit Summary tab. If correct, select Submit . •
Once scheduled, you should see the status in the related processes tab.•
MONITOR PROCESSES
To find related processes of a Process Definition, right -click and select Monitor related processes . •
You will see past runs and current status.•
Do you want me to also turn this into a step -by-step training guide format (like a checklist/manual with 
screenshots placeholders), or keep it strictly as a reference doc?
Document:
If she sends out specify what Account Recievable Jobs, SAP GCP EAP, Cronacle
Compile this and put it into one place
We have AR processes like high radius matt has taken care of it
One spreadsheet or divided up into multiple end -to-end flow with different transactions
Different process that are consumed in AR 
Account recievable boot camp
Getting inventory of ar, documentation lists ar or ap
Order to Cash
Procure to Pay
Anything falling into that needs to flow out 
Doing it this way more logical in sap standpoint
From the chain take all AR and put it into a separate spreadsheet column f and h data that we need to 
build process. Go through the list take out everything that’s AR capture e,f,h and then 
For each of the chain we need the steps for them . 
Ivan can pull chain with steps, take that information and build into next spreadsheet
Get a list of all AR chain 
Get steps in there . Add in respond plan all in one place. 
Big picture, drill down, 
Get list for AR1.
Cronacle table of finance_cronacle_jobs_main2.
Put steps for chain on there 3.
Go to lucid_upload_jobs
Templates "billing" to build diagram for AR task in a.
File with AR so kimmy can load and generate lucid chartb.
End objective is to insert into finance_background jobs lucidc.
Everything but what's in finance_background_jobsd.4.
She loads template and it builds information, depencdencys timing what order to execute. 5.
Any dependencies? Map it, which job executed at which time so on. 6.
Thursday report is generated from this based on all transactions goes to upper level bigwigs7.
If we something fail, take care of it. 8.Begin in -Finance_AR_AP_SAP Upgrade Batch Jobs Cutover –Main 1.
Move all chains with names beginning as AR or ZFAR (Accounts Recievable) to a new sheet along 
with the frequency and scheduled time (Columns E, F, H)
Matt has taken care of High Radius AR Processesa.2.
For each chain, navigate to Finance_Cronacle_Jobs_Main –Cronacle
Search for the Job Chains associated to AR a.
Copy and paste steps alongside chain name, schedule, and frequencyb.3.
\CRONACLE
Thursday, September 11, 2025 3:59 PM
   SAP S4HANA Training Page 677    
   SAP S4HANA Training Page 678    
NATS JetStream Integration –Technical Implementation Summary 1.pdf
2319.10262470436 3.json
Meeting on 5/7/2025, Pending approval from Zach Hendrix (BOM Portal Developer)
For every submission in BOM Portal to SAP, that is triggering the MES Publisher•
Tested in DEV the NATS pub/sub receival •
Jose to provide KT next week 
After handover, bom portal will own the development○•
Anytime bom portal publishes to SAP the trigger for the MES payload happens and has been 
tested per Kenneth Lane•
Variable work when heading to production with APP configurations, variable changes, pointing to 
right server for each instance•
KT for NATS MES PUBLISHER
Payload is sent through NATS
Creates new code for the packages and in bom portal we have different tabs to store information
Data validity testing from our side will be needed. 
Andre hecked submit and manipulate in dev recipes
Get the payload verify with bom portal front end. NATS MES Publisher Status
Wednesday, May 07, 2025 1:06 PM
   MES Page 679    
SCRIPT: SAP BOM Portal Reconciliation –Requirements Gathering Meeting
 [0–5 min] –Welcome & Meeting Objective
“Hi everyone —thanks for joining. I’m Greg Homstad, IT Product Owner for the BOM Portal. Today’s 
session is focused on gathering your input to improve how we reconcile Bill of Materials data between 
SAP and the BOM Portal.
We’re going to walk through a Power BI report built off our latest reconciliation logic and then open the 
floor for discussion around current pain points, gaps, and reporting or process needs.”
 [5–15 min] –Context: Why We're Here
“We’re using a comparison between SAP BOM tables and the BOM Portal’s recipe data to identify where 
materials exist in one system but not the other.
Specifically, we’re flagging:
Materials in SAP but missing in the BOM Portal •
Materials in the BOM Portal but missing in SAP —which can lead to inaccuracies in reporting, costing, 
or downstream integration.•
We’re enriching this comparison with plant, BOM type, and material type details to give us more 
actionable insights.”
 [15–30 min] –Power BI Demo
“Let me show you what this looks like in the Power BI dashboard. This report highlights mismatches by 
plant and material number, tags them as ‘ ot on BOM’ or ‘ ot on SAP’, and includes filters for plant, 
material type (ZFG, ZSWP, ZCWP, and BOM type (Finance/Production).
The goal here is to gain more visibility to proactively resolve issues and improve alignment between SAP 
and BOM Portal.”
 [30–50 min] –Stakeholder Input (Live Discussion)
“ ow I’d like to hear from you. Our goal is to turn this from a basic comparison into a tool that solves 
your real -world problems.
Some key questions for the group:
Where do we see mismatches in BOM data causing the most issues in your workflows?•
Are there any specific fields or BOM types that have been more prone to errors?•
What kinds of alerts, exports, or filters would make this dashboard more useful?•
Do you manually track or flag these issues today? If so, how?•
What does your ideal version of this report look like?”•
✅[50–60 min] –Wrap -up & Next Steps
“Thank you all for your feedback. I’ll compile today’s input into a requirements summary and follow up 
with any items we need clarification on.
Next steps:
We’ll refine the reconciliation logic and dashboard design based on your feedback.1.
I’ll set up a follow -up session to review progress and proposed changes before development begins. 2.
If anything comes to mind after the meeting, feel free to email me directly.”
Let me know if you'd like this turned into a slide deck , meeting invite , or Notion/Confluence doc to 
share with your stakeholders.✅What the Query Does (Technical Summary)
The query performs a reconciliation between SAP BOM data and BOM Portal data , specifically checking 
for materials that are present in one system but missing in the other , across matching plants.
 Step -by-step breakdown:
Step 1: BOM Portal Data ( bom_data CTE)
Pulls current recipes from the BOM Portal that:
Are still active ( VALID_END_DATE IS NULL ) •
Join through the plant -material cross -reference ( plant_material_xref_current ) •
Join to material_current to get valid (non -deleted) materials •
Adds BOM Type and Material ID for further use•
Step 2: SAP BOM Data ( sap_data CTE)
Pulls materials from SAP that:
Belong to a valid BOM ( STLNR , STLAL , STLTY = 'M' ) •
Are valid today ( datuv <= CURRENT_DATE() ) •
Have no deletion flag ( lkenz , loekz IS NULL ) •
Have a VALID_TO = '9999 -12-31'—SAP’s way of saying “still active” •
Exclude materials flagged for deletion from SAP as well•
Step 3: Compare SAP vs BOM Portal ( discrepancies CTE)
Uses a FULL OUTER JOIN between bom_data and sap_data on:
PLANT_CODE•
MATERIAL_NUM•
Identifies discrepancies where:
A material exists only in SAP → status = 'Not on BOM' •
A material exists only in BOM Portal → status = 'Not on SAP' •
Step 4: Enrich with Material Type (Final SELECT)
Joins again with material_current to retrieve the material type , depending on which system the 
material came from (BOM or SAP).Recon Review w/ Business
Tuesday, April 15, 2025 8:19 AM
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 680    
The following query returns:
BOM Number, Plant Code, Usage, Alt_Bom, Primary Material Number, Primary Material Description, 
Operation Number, Component Material Number, Component Material Description, Formulation 
Quantity, Usage, Global Scrap Percentage
--1. Get latest valid BOM header per material + plant + usage + alternative BOM
WITH latest_stko AS (
  SELECT *
  FROM (
    SELECT
      stko.stlnr ,
      stko.datuv AS bom_valid_from_date ,
      stko.valid_to AS bom_valid_to_date ,
      stko.loekz AS bom_deletion_flag ,
      mast.matnr ,
      mast.werks ,
      mast.stlan ,
      mast.stlal ,
      ROW_NUMBER () OVER (
        PARTITION BY mast.matnr , mast.werks , mast.stlan , mast.stlal
        ORDER BY stko.datuv DESC
      ) AS rn
    FROM `bigquery_prod_2434_entdataingest_05104f_s4hana_confidential.stko_current` stko
    JOIN `bigquery_prod_2434_entdataingest_05104f_s4hana_internal.mast_current` mast
      ON stko.stlnr = mast.stlnr
    WHERE stko.valid_to = '9999 -12-31'
  )
  WHERE rn= 1
),
--2. Get current, most recent component rows per BOM + component material
latest_stpo AS (
  SELECT *
  FROM (
    SELECT
      stpo.stlnr ,
      stpo.posnr ,
      stpo.idnrk ,
      stpo.menge ,
      stpo.ewahr ,
      stpo.ausch ,
      stpo.datuv AS component_valid_from_date ,
      stpo.valid_to AS component_valid_to_date ,
      stpo.lkenz AS component_deletion_flag ,
      ROW_NUMBER () OVER (
        PARTITION BY stpo.stlnr , stpo.posnr , stpo.idnrk
        ORDER BY stpo.datuv DESC
      ) AS rn
    FROM `bigquery_prod_2434_entdataingest_05104f_s4hana_confidential.stpo_current` stpoComponent Level Reconciliation Queries
Monday, June 09, 2025 10:15 AM
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 681    
    FROM `bigquery_prod_2434_entdataingest_05104f_s4hana_confidential.stpo_current` stpo
    WHERE stpo.valid_to = '9999 -12-31'
  )
  WHERE rn= 1
),
--3. Pull operation numbers from RESB (routing/reservation) for each BOM item
mapped_ops AS (
  SELECT DISTINCT
    resb.stlnr ,
    resb.posnr ,
    resb.vornr
  FROM `bigquery_prod_2434_entdataingest_05104f_s4hana_internal.resb_current` resb
  WHERE resb.vornr IS NOT NULL
)
--4. Final select: combine and present one row per component per operation
SELECT
  REGEXP_REPLACE (stko.stlnr , r'^0+' , '') AS BOM_Number ,
  stko.werks AS Plant_Code ,
  stko.stlan AS BOM_Usage ,
  stko.stlal AS Alt_BOM ,
  REGEXP_REPLACE (stko.matnr , r'^0+' , '') AS Primary_Material_Number ,
  mp.maktx AS Primary_Material_Description ,
  CAST (mo.vornr AS STRING ) AS Operation_Number ,
  REGEXP_REPLACE (stpo.idnrk , r'^0+' , '') AS Component_Material_Number ,
  mc.maktx AS Component_Description ,
  stpo.menge AS Formulation_Quantity ,
  stpo.ewahr AS Usage_Percent ,
  IFNULL (stpo.ausch , 0) AS Scrap_Percent ,
  stpo.component_valid_from_date AS Component_Valid_From_Date ,
  stpo.component_valid_to_date AS Component_Valid_To_Date ,
  stko.bom_valid_from_date AS BOM_Valid_From_Date ,
  stko.bom_valid_to_date AS BOM_Valid_To_Date ,
  stko.bom_deletion_flag ,
  stpo.component_deletion_flag
FROM latest_stko stko
JOIN latest_stpo stpo
  ON stko.stlnr = stpo.stlnr
LEFT JOIN mapped_ops mo
  ON stpo.stlnr = mo.stlnr AND stpo.posnr = mo.posnr
LEFT JOIN `bigquery_prod_2434_entdataingest_05104f_s4hana_internal.makt_current` mp
  ON stko.matnr = mp.matnr AND mp.spras = 'E'
LEFT JOIN `bigquery_prod_2434_entdataingest_05104f_s4hana_internal.makt_current` mc
  ON stpo.idnrk = mc.matnr AND mc.spras = 'E'
WHERE stpo.ewahr > 0
  AND IFNULL (stpo.ausch , 0) > 0  --only non -zero scrap components
  AND REGEXP_REPLACE (stko.matnr , r'^0+' , '')= '10015160040'
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 682    
  AND REGEXP_REPLACE (stko.matnr , r'^0+' , '')= '10015160040'
ORDER BY BOM_Number , Operation_Number , Component_Material_Number ;
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 683    
WITH latest_stko AS (
  SELECT *
  FROM (
    SELECT
      stko.stlnr ,
      stko.stlty ,
      stko.datuv AS bom_valid_from_date ,
      stko.valid_to AS bom_valid_to_date ,
      stko.loekz AS bom_deletion_flag ,
      mast.matnr ,
      mast.werks ,
      mast.stlan ,
      mast.stlal ,
      ROW_NUMBER () OVER (
        PARTITION BY mast.matnr , mast.werks , mast.stlan , mast.stlal
        ORDER BY stko.datuv DESC
      ) AS rn
    FROM `bigquery_prod_2434_entdataingest_05104f_s4hana_confidential.stko_current` stko
    JOIN `bigquery_prod_2434_entdataingest_05104f_s4hana_internal.mast_current` mast
      ON stko.stlnr = mast.stlnr
    WHERE stko.valid_to = '9999 -12-31'
    and stko.stlty = 'M'
    and stko.lkenz is null
  )
  WHERE rn= 1
),
latest_stpo AS (
  SELECT *
  FROM (
    SELECT
      stpo.meins ,
      stpo.stlnr ,
      stpo.posnr ,
      stpo.idnrk ,
      stpo.menge ,
      stpo.ewahr ,
      stpo.ausch ,
      stpo.datuv AS component_valid_from_date ,
      stpo.valid_to AS component_valid_to_date ,
      stpo.lkenz AS component_deletion_flag ,
      stpo.postp AS item_category ,
      ROW_NUMBER () OVER (
        PARTITION BY stpo.stlnr , stpo.posnr , stpo.idnrk
        ORDER BY stpo.datuv DESC
      ) AS rn
    FROM `bigquery_prod_2434_entdataingest_05104f_s4hana_confidential.stpo_current` stpo
    WHERE stpo.valid_to = '9999 -12-31'Query
Wednesday, June 25, 2025 3:41 PM
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 684    
    WHERE stpo.valid_to = '9999 -12-31'
    AND stpo.lkenz is null
    AND stpo.stlty = 'M'
  )
  WHERE rn= 1
),
pi05_step AS (
  SELECT *
  FROM (
    SELECT
      plpo.plnnr ,
      plpo.plnty ,
      plpo.werks ,
      plpo.bmsch ,
      plpo.vgw03 ,
      ROW_NUMBER () OVER (
        PARTITION BY plpo.plnnr , plpo.plnty , plpo.werks
        ORDER BY plpo.datuv DESC
      ) AS rn
    FROM `bigquery_prod_2434_entdataingest_05104f_s4hana_internal.plpo_current` plpo
    WHERE plpo.steus = 'PI05'
      AND plpo.valid_to = '9999 -12-31'
      AND plpo.loekz IS NULL
      AND plpo.plnty = '2'
  )
  WHERE rn= 1
)
SELECT
  stko.werks AS Plant_Code ,
  mkal.plnnr AS Recipe_Group ,
  mkal.alnal AS Recipe_Group_Counter ,
  REGEXP_REPLACE (stko.stlnr , r'^0+' , '') AS BOM_Number ,
  stko.stlal AS Alt_BOM ,
  stko.stlan AS BOM_Usage ,
  REGEXP_REPLACE (stko.matnr , r'^0+' , '') AS Primary_Material_Number ,
  mara.MEINS AS Primary_UoM , 
  makt_primary.maktx AS Primary_Material_Description ,
  pi05.bmsch AS Throughput ,
  pi05.vgw03 AS Crewing ,
  stpo.posnr as Item_Number ,
  REGEXP_REPLACE (stpo.idnrk , r'^0+' , '') AS Component_Material_Number ,
  makt_comp.maktx AS Component_Description ,
  IFNULL (stpo.ewahr , 0) AS Usage_Percent ,
  IFNULL (stpo.ausch , 0) AS Scrap_Percent ,
  stpo.menge AS Formulation_Quantity ,
  stpo.meins AS Component_UOM ,
  CASE 
    WHEN stpo.item_category = 'L' THEN 'Stock Item'
    WHEN stpo.item_category = 'N' THEN 'Non -Stock Item'
    WHEN stpo.item_category = 'D' THEN 'Document Item'
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 685    
    WHEN stpo.item_category = 'D' THEN 'Document Item'
    WHEN stpo.item_category = 'T' THEN 'Text Item'
    ELSE 'Other'
  END AS Item_Category
FROM `bigquery_prod_2434_entdataingest_05104f_s4hana_confidential.mkal_current` mkal
Inner JOIN latest_stko stko
  ON mkal.matnr = stko.matnr AND mkal.werks = stko.werks
INNER JOIN latest_stpo stpo
  ON stko.stlnr = stpo.stlnr
Inner JOIN pi05_step pi05
  ON mkal.plnnr = pi05.plnnr AND mkal.plnty = '2' AND mkal.werks = pi05.werks
Inner JOIN `bigquery_prod_2434_entdataingest_05104f_s4hana_internal.makt_current` makt_primary
  ON mkal.matnr = makt_primary.matnr AND makt_primary.spras = 'E'
Inner JOIN `bigquery_prod_2434_entdataingest_05104f_s4hana_internal.makt_current` makt_comp
  ON stpo.idnrk = makt_comp.matnr AND makt_comp.spras = 'E' 
INNER JOIN `hana_p0a_tenv_s4_internal.mara_current` mara 
  ON mkal.MATNR = mara.MATNR and mkal.mandt = mara.MANDT
WHERE mkal.bdatu = '9999 -12-31'
  AND stpo.menge != 0
  AND mkal.plnnr = '50001084'
  AND stko.stlal = '01'
ORDER BY
  stko.werks ,
  mkal.plnnr ,
  mkal.alnal ,
  REGEXP_REPLACE (stko.stlnr , r'^0+' , ''),
  stko.stlal ,
  stko.stlan ,
  REGEXP_REPLACE (stko.matnr , r'^0+' , ''),
  makt_primary.maktx ,
  pi05.bmsch ,
  pi05.vgw03 ,
  REGEXP_REPLACE (stpo.idnrk , r'^0+' , ''),
  makt_comp.maktx ,
  IFNULL (stpo.ewahr , 0),
  IFNULL (stpo.ausch , 0);
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 686    
Here’s your updated version with clearly separated “Immediate Actions” vs. “Future 
Enhancements” :
 Immediate Actions (To Be Completed By Friday)
 Data Sync
Ensure daily data refresh so the update date aligns with the report. •
 Reporting Logic
Exclude all: •
Phantom BOMs where: •
ZCWP AND •
Description starts with “PH -” •
Unchecked inventory points where inventory point indicator = 1 (for now) •
Include entries where a Recipe ID exists in BOM Portal but not in SAP (unless excluded by above 
rules).•
 EAP Job Validation
Research the EAP job (used to submit BOMs to SAP): •
Is it currently running ? •
Can it be scheduled to run periodically ? •
Contact : Kari Siemens •
 Prioritization List
Build and circulate a prioritized task list with short descriptions for: •
Cleanup•
Reporting exclusions•
Submission readiness•
 Future Enhancements / To Revisit Later
 Unchecked Inventory Points
Reintroduce unchecked inventory points in the report where: •
The item has no owner •
The point is not used by any BOM •
Build logic to track ownership of unchecked inventory points. •
Create a report section specifically for orphaned inventory points that were never submitted to 
SAP.•
 Deletion & Status Handling•
Remove items with Y3 status from the report. •
Allow BOM termination logic to apply regardless of Y3 status. •
•
 Collaboration with Procurement
Partner with Procurement to: •
Validate if phantoms are matched/used •
Decide on long -term logic for ZCWP and PHexclusions •
Let me know if you want this formatted into a Word doc or broken into Jira stories.Recon Review w/ business 5/6/25
Tuesday, May 06, 2025 10:31 AM
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 687    
We are still seeing unchecked inventory points show up in the report. Recon Review w/ Business 5/9/25
Friday, May 09, 2025 11:25 AM
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 688    
Unchecked inventory points are still showing up.
Investigate why they are back on the report showing they are not on bom but they are. 
Look at berryville on the report by itself are showing not on bom. 
2ndand the 13th.  changed identity. Something happened that showed when refresh it regains identity 
regains recipe IDRecon Review w/Business 5/16/25
Friday, May 16, 2025 10:56 AM
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 689    
Should we begin having in person meetings? I can come to HQ once a week
BOM Portal save feature is not syncing properly. 
1. Welcome and Introduction (10 minutes)
Host: [Your Name]•
Objective: Brief overview of the meeting's purpose and expected outcomes.
Review the current Power BI report○
Discuss level of Granularity for component level reconciliation○•
2. Review of Current SAP and BOM Portal Data Integration (15 minutes)
Presenter: [Name] •
Topics: 
Overview of current data integration processes.•
Summary of existing discrepancies identified at the primary level•
Key metrics and performance indicators.••
3. Detailed Analysis of Component -Level Discrepancies (30 minutes)
Presenter: [Name] •
Topics: 
Presentation of SQL queries used to identify discrepancies.•
Breakdown of discrepancies by category (e.g., missing components, mismatched quantities).••
Topics: 
Open floor for questions, comments, and suggestions.•
Addressing any additional concerns from participants.•
Consensus on next steps and follow -up actions. ••
7. Summary and Closing Remarks (10 minutes)
Host: [Your Name]•
Topics: 
Recap of key points discussed.•
Confirmation of agreed action items and deadlines.•
Thank you to participants and next meeting date.••To do:
Full analysis of component -level discrepancies based on granularity discussion 
how is cs03 populated in sap? How can we take this 
Do our components line up?
Does usage and scrap line up?
Object reference not in
Open incidents with discrepancy
BOM Portal delivers data to SAP through two transactions, recipe transaction which is the resource the 
throughput and crewing and then delivers BOM which is material side of SAP 
BOMS
Components have to have a usage in order to make it to SAP 
Components have spec quantity
Other items or alternate components come from seconds tab
Alternates
Packaging tab 
Current ticket –component scrap isnt lining 
Material Number
Total scrap in sap is wrong vs whats in sap for the component scrap percentage. 
Usage Probability  for the specific component
Packaging doesn’t have yield but it could have scrap 
Include phantoms as a component level they will 
Just 
Compare Recipe Components and Resource and steps are on the recipe
C203
Resource agree, do the steps agree, throughput base qty, crewing qty 3rdstandard value
Recipe AFE Report
Split it up Recipe and BOM versions. 
Meeeting on the 28thto discuss progress. We discussed the depth of the comparison to get to the component level and decided to split 
into two levels of detail.  One being the recipe and the other being the BOM.  Here are the 
listings of the detail items we want to see.
Recipe
Throughputs (Base Quantity)1.
Crew (3rdStandard Value) 2.
Recipe Steps3.
Resource Assignment.4.
BOM
Components (WIP/Phantom/Ingredients/Packaging)1.
Usage Percentage2.
Scrap Factor3.
Seconds / Byproducts4.
Seconds / Byproducts Percentage5.
Item Category (Stock / Non -Stock, Etc.) 6.
Unit of Measure7.
We will keep to the same constraints to eliminate Phantom BOM’s and unchecked inventory 
points.  Phantoms as a component will need to be considered.
Greg will start on the analysis of this and will schedule a meeting with us for the 28thto discuss 
progress.
Thank you,We discussed the depth of the comparison to get to the component level and decided to split 
into two levels of detail.  One being the recipe and the other being the BOM.  Here are the 
listings of the detail items we want to see.
Recipe
Throughputs (Base Quantity)1.
Crew (3rdStandard Value) 2.
Recipe Steps3.
Resource Assignment.4.
BOM
Components (WIP/Phantom/Ingredients/Packaging) mast.MATNR 1.
Usage Percentage STPO.EWAHR 2.
Scrap Factor STPO.AUSCH ( Component Scrap %) 3.
Seconds / Byproducts4.
Seconds / Byproducts Percentage5.
Item Category (Stock / Non -Stock, Etc.) 6.
Unit of Measure STKO.BMEIN 7.
We will keep to the same constraints to eliminate Phantom BOM’s and unchecked inventory 
points.  Phantoms as a component will need to be considered.
Greg will start on the analysis of this and will schedule a meeting with us for the 28thto discuss 
progress.
Thank you,
Throughputs
Crewing
Recipe Steps
Resource Assignment
Components
Usage Percentage
Scrap Percentage
Second/byproducts 
Seconds percentage
Item Category
Unit of Measure
Plant Code mast.WERKS plant.PLANT_CODE
Material 
Numbermast.MATNR material.MATERIAL_NUMBER
Material 
descriptionmakt.MAKTX recipe.MATERIAL_DESCRIPTION
bom type mast.STLAN recipe.BOMTYPE
sap version 
number (alt)mast.STLAL recipe.SAP_VERSION_NUM
step code CONCAT_WS(' -', 
corporate_formulation_step.FORMULATION_STEP_CODE, 
cfs.FORMULATION_STEP_VERSION) AS stepCode, 
step 
component 
percent  step_component_group.STEP_COMPONENT_PCT AS 
stepComponentPct, 
total scrap 
percentSTPO.AUSCH 
( Component Scrap 
%)step_component.TOTAL_SCRAP_PCT
usage 
probabilitySTPO.EWAHR (Usage 
Probability)step_component.USAGE_PROBABILITY
formulation STPO.MENGE step_component.FORMULATION_QTYHere's a detailed mapping of each field to its corresponding SAP table and field:
### Recipe Management
1. **Throughputs (Base Quantity)**
   -**SAP Table**: `PLPO` (Operation)
   -**SAP Field**: `VGW01` (Standard value 1)
2. **Crew (3rd Standard Value)**
   -**SAP Table**: `PLPO` (Operation)
   -**SAP Field**: `VGW03` (Standard value 3)
3. **Recipe Steps**
   -**SAP Table**: `PLPO` (Operation)
   -**SAP Field**: `APLZL` (General operation/Activity number)
4. **Resource Assignment**
   -**SAP Table**: `PLPO` (Operation)
   -**SAP Field**: `ARBID` (Work center)
### BOM (Bill of Materials) Management
1. **Components (WIP/Phantom/Ingredients/Packaging)**
   -**SAP Table**: `STPO` (BOM Item)
   -**SAP Field**: `POSTP` (Item category)
2. **mast.MATNR**
   -**SAP Table**: `MAST` (Material to BOM Link)
   -**SAP Field**: `MATNR` (Material number)
3. **Usage Percentage (STPO.EWAHR)**
   -**SAP Table**: `STPO` (BOM Item)
   -**SAP Field**: `EWAHR` (Usage probability in %)
4. **Scrap Factor (STPO.AUSCH)**
   -**SAP Table**: `STPO` (BOM Item)
   -**SAP Field**: `AUSCH` (Assembly scrap in %)
5. **Seconds / Byproducts**
   -**SAP Table**: `PLPO` (Operation)
   -**SAP Field**: `VGW02` (Standard value 2) or custom field if specific to byproducts
6. **Seconds / Byproducts Percentage**
   -**SAP Table**: `PLPO` (Operation)
   -**SAP Field**: Custom field if specific to byproducts percentage
7. **Item Category (Stock / Non -Stock, Etc.)**
   -**SAP Table**: `STPO` (BOM Item)
   -**SAP Field**: `POSTP` (Item category)
8. **Unit of Measure (STKO.BMEIN)**
   -**SAP Table**: `STKO` (BOM Header)
   -**SAP Field**: `BMEIN` (Base unit of measure)
### Key Fields in BOM
-**mast.MATNR**
  -**SAP Table**: `MAST` (Material to BOM Link)STEP_COMPONENT:
STEP_COMPONENT_ID
PRIMARY_ITEM_IND
COMP_SCRAP_PCT
TOTAL_SCRAP_PCT
USAGE_PROBABILITY_PCT
STEP_COMPONENT_GROUP_ID
ITEM_CODE_TYPE_ID
MATERIAL_UOM_ID
FORMULATION_QTY
OVERRIDE_FORMULATION_QTY
YIELD_QTY
LEAD_DAYS
PLANT_MATERIAL_ID
ALT_USAGE_PROBABILITY_PCT
STEP_COMPONENT_GROUP:
STEP_COMPONENT_GROUP_ID
STEP_COMPONENT_GROUP_TYPE
STEP_COMPONENT_PCT
SEQUENCE
GRP_COPY_IND
ON_SPEC_IND
MAIN_INGREDIENT_OVERRIDE_IND
FORMULATION_STEP_ID
SECONDS_STEP_COMPONENT_GROUP_IDSELECT   --Recipe + Step Info  sc.PRIMARY_ITEM_IND,  
r.RECIPE_ID,  r.BOM_TYPE AS bomType,  
r.SAP_VERSION_NUM,  r.SAP_RECIPE_NUM,  
r.SAP_BOM_NUM,  r.THROUGHPUT_QTY,  
r.CREW_QTY,   --Plant Info  p.PLANT_CODE AS plant,  
p.PLANT_DESCR AS plantDescription,  p.PLANT_TYPE AS 
plantType,   --Material Info  m.MATERIAL_NUM AS 
material,  m.MATERIAL_DESCR AS materialDescription,  
m.MATERIAL_TYPE AS materialType,  
m.MATERIAL_GROUP AS materialGroup,  
m.MATERIAL_GROUP_DESCR,   --Resource Info  
pr.RESOURCE_NUMBER,  pr.RESOURCE_NAME,   --Step 
Info  CONCAT_WS(' -', cfs.FORMULATION_STEP_CODE, 
cfs.FORMULATION_STEP_VERSION) AS stepCode,   --
Component Info  cm.MATERIAL_NUM AS component,  
cm.MATERIAL_DESCR AS componentDescr,  
cm.MATERIAL_TYPE AS componentType,  
cm.MATERIAL_GROUP AS componentGroup,   
sc.COMP_SCRAP_PCT,   sc.TOTAL_SCRAP_PCT,  
sc.USAGE_PROBABILITY_PCT,  sc.YIELD_QTY,  
sc.FORMULATION_QTY,  
sc.ALT_USAGE_PROBABILITY_PCT,  
scg.STEP_COMPONENT_PCT AS stepComponentPct,   --
UOM  stepu.UOM_DESCR AS stepUom FROM MATERIAL 
mINNER JOIN PLANT_MATERIAL_XREF pmx   ON 
m.MATERIAL_ID = pmx.MATERIAL_IDINNER JOIN PLANT p   
ON pmx.PLANT_ID = p.PLANT_IDINNER JOIN RECIPE r   ON 
pmx.PLANT_MATERIAL_ID = r.PLANT_MATERIAL_IDINNER 
JOIN RECIPE_FORMULATION_XREF rfx   ON r.RECIPE_ID = 
rfx.RECIPE_IDINNER JOIN FORMULATION_STEP fs   ON 
rfx.FORMULATION_STEP_ID = 
fs.FORMULATION_STEP_IDINNER JOIN 
CORP_FORMULATION_STEP cfs   ON 
fs.CORP_FORMULATION_STEP_ID = 
cfs.CORP_FORMULATION_STEP_ID --ResourcesLEFT JOIN 
RECIPE_RESOURCE_JOB_XREF rrjx   ON 
rrjx.PLANT_MATERIAL_ID = 
pmx.PLANT_MATERIAL_IDLEFT JOIN PLANT_RESOURCE pr   
ON pr.PLANT_RESOURCE_ID = 
rrjx.PLANT_RESOURCE_ID --Component GroupingLEFT 
JOIN STEP_COMPONENT_GROUP scg   ON 
fs.FORMULATION_STEP_ID = 
scg.FORMULATION_STEP_IDLEFT JOIN 
STEP_COMPONENT sc   ON 
sc.STEP_COMPONENT_GROUP_ID = 
scg.STEP_COMPONENT_GROUP_IDLEFT JOIN 
PLANT_MATERIAL_XREF cpmx   ON 
sc.PLANT_MATERIAL_ID = 
cpmx.PLANT_MATERIAL_IDLEFT JOIN MATERIAL cm   ON 
cpmx.MATERIAL_ID = cm.MATERIAL_ID --UOMLEFT JOIN 
MATERIAL_UOM_XREF stepmux   ON 
sc.MATERIAL_UOM_ID = 
stepmux.MATERIAL_UOM_IDLEFT JOIN UOM stepu   ON 
stepmux.UOM_ID = stepu.UOM_ID --Optional: Seconds 
join if neededLEFT JOIN FORMULATION f   ON 
f.MATERIAL_ID = m.MATERIAL_IDLEFT JOIN 
FORMULATION_SECONDS fs2   ON fs2.FORMULATION_ID 
= f.FORMULATION_ID;SAP Reconciliation -Component -
Level Granularity Discussion
Wednesday, May 14, 2025 10:56 AM
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 690    
percent
total scrap 
percentSTPO.AUSCH 
( Component Scrap 
%)step_component.TOTAL_SCRAP_PCT
usage 
probabilitySTPO.EWAHR (Usage 
Probability)step_component.USAGE_PROBABILITY
formulation 
quantitySTPO.MENGE 
( Component 
Quantity)step_component.FORMULATION_QTY
yield quantity STPO.MENGE 
( Component 
Quantity)step_component.YIELD_QTY
UOM/Descripti
onSTKO.BMEIN UOM.UOM_DESCR
BILL of Material STPO.STLNR (BOM 
Number)recipe.SAP_BOM_NUM
Valid to date STPO.Valid_to Valid_to_group.VALID_TO_PCT AS ValidToPct,
Component 
Material STPO.IDNRK component.COMPONENT_MATERIAL
Created in Plant STKO.WRKAN
BOM Status STKO.STLST recipe.recipe_status_ID   -**SAP Table**: `STKO` (BOM Header)
   -**SAP Field**: `BMEIN` (Base unit of measure)
### Key Fields in BOM
-**mast.MATNR**
  -**SAP Table**: `MAST` (Material to BOM Link)
  -**SAP Field**: `MATNR` (Material number)
-**STPO.EWAHR**
  -**SAP Table**: `STPO` (BOM Item)
  -**SAP Field**: `EWAHR` (Usage probability in %)
-**STPO.AUSCH**
  -**SAP Table**: `STPO` (BOM Item)
  -**SAP Field**: `AUSCH` (Assembly scrap in %)
-**STKO.BMEIN**
  -**SAP Table**: `STKO` (BOM Header)
  -**SAP Field**: `BMEIN` (Base unit of measure)
This should give you a comprehensive understanding of where each field is located within SAP tables 
and their corresponding fields. If you need further details or have additional questions, feel free to ask
STEP_COMPONENT:
STEP_COMPONENT_ID
PRIMARY_ITEM_IND
COMP_SCRAP_PCT
TOTAL_SCRAP_PCT
USAGE_PROBABILITY_PCT
STEP_COMPONENT_GROUP_ID
ITEM_CODE_TYPE_ID
MATERIAL_UOM_ID
FORMULATION_QTY
OVERRIDE_FORMULATION_QTY
YIELD_QTY
LEAD_DAYS
PLANT_MATERIAL_ID
ALT_USAGE_PROBABILITY_PCT
STEP_COMPONENT_GROUP:
STEP_COMPONENT_GROUP_ID
STEP_COMPONENT_GROUP_TYPE
STEP_COMPONENT_PCT
SEQUENCE
GRP_COPY_IND
ON_SPEC_IND
MAIN_INGREDIENT_OVERRIDE_IND
FORMULATION_STEP_ID
SECONDS_STEP_COMPONENT_GROUP_ID
Field SAP Table(s) Likely Field(s)
Throughputs CRHD , AFVV , 
AFVCARBID , VORNR , VGW01 (standard values), BZeit (setup time), 
LARNT
Crewing AFVV , CRCA , 
AFVCARBID , ANZMA (number of persons), MEINH (unit of measure)
Recipe Steps STPO , STKO , 
AFVCSTLNR , STLKN , VORNR , ARBPL , LTXA1
Resource 
AssignmentCRHD , AFVC ARBID , WERKS , ARBPL , KTEXT
Components STPO , RESB IDNRK (component), MENGE , POSTP (item category)
Usage Percentage STPO USAGE , MENGE , NETPR
Scrap Percentage STPO , RESB AUSCH , NETPR , MNGLP
Second/byproducts STPO , RESB KZUST (status), POSTP
Seconds percentage STPO , AFVC MENGE , AUSCH
Item Category STPO , RESB POSTP , SORTF
Unit of Measure MARA , MARM , 
STPOMEINS , UMREZ , UMREN , ALTMEField BOM_MySQL Table(s) Field(s)
Throughputs RECIPE , CUT_ROUTING THROUGHPUT_QTY , 
FINAL_THROUGHPUT_QTY , 
LB_DAY_QTY
Crewing RECIPE , CUT_ROUTING , 
ROUTING_POSITION_TITLE_XREFCREW_QTY , CREW_SIZE_QTY , 
OPTIMUM_CREWING_QTY
Recipe Steps FORMULATION_STEP , 
FORMULATION_STEP_NODE , 
FORMULATION_STEP_LINK , 
CORP_FORMULATION_STEPFORMULATION_STEP_ID , CODE , 
SEQUENCE , DESCRIPTION , 
PROCESS_TYPE , PROCESS_DESCR
Resource 
AssignmentRECIPE , RECIPE_RESOURCE_JOB_XREF , 
PLANT_RESOURCE , 
PLANT_RESOURCE_NETWORKPLANT_RESOURCE_ID , 
RESOURCE_NAME , RESOURCE_NUMBER
Components STEP_COMPONENT , 
FORMULATION_COMPONENT , 
STEP_COMPONENT_GROUP , 
RECIPE_FORMULATION_XREFMATERIAL_UOM_ID , 
FORMULATION_QTY , YIELD_QTY
Usage 
PercentageSTEP_COMPONENT , 
STEP_COMPONENT_GROUPUSAGE_PROBABILITY_PCT , 
STEP_COMPONENT_PCT
Scrap 
PercentageSTEP_COMPONENT , 
RECIPE_FORMULATION_XREF , 
FORMULATION_STEPCOMP_SCRAP_PCT , TOTAL_SCRAP_PCT , 
GROUP_SCRAP_PCT
Second/bypr
oductsFORMULATION_SECONDS , CUT_DETAIL FORMULATION_SECOND_ID , 
BYPRODUCT_IND
Seconds 
percentageCUT_DETAIL , STEP_COMPONENT_GROUP YIELD_PCT , STEP_COMPONENT_PCT , 
PRIMARY_IND
Item 
CategoryITEM_CODE_TYPE , STEP_COMPONENT ITEM_CODE_TYPE_ID , 
ITEM_CODE_TYPE_DESCR
Unit of 
MeasureMATERIAL_UOM_XREF , UOM UOM_ID , SAP_UOM_ABBR , 
UOM_ISO_CODE , UOM_DESCR
RECIPE:
RECIPE_ID
PLANT_MATERIAL_ID
SAP_VERSION_NUMCUT_ROUTING:
ROUTING_ID
ROUTING_DESCR
ROUTING_SAP_IDROUTING_POSITION_TITLE_XREF:
ROUTING_POSITION_TITLE_XREF_ID
ROUTING_ID
POSITION_TITLE_IDPLANT_RESOURCE:
PLANT_RESOURCE_ID
PLANT_ID
RESOURCE_NUMBER
RESOURCE_NAMEFORMULATION:
FORMULATION_ID
MATERIAL_ID
NAME
VERSIONFORMULATION_STEP_LINK:
FORMULATION_STEP_LINK_ID
FORMULATION_ID
SOURCE_STEP_NODE_IDFORMULATION_STEP:
FORMULATION_STEP_ID
CORP_FORMULATION_STEP_ID
RECIPE_PART_IDThroughputs
Crewing
Recipe Steps
Resource Assignment
Components
Usage Percentage
Scrap Percentage
Second/byproducts 
Seconds percentage
Item Category
Unit of Measure
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 691    
RECIPE:
RECIPE_ID
PLANT_MATERIAL_ID
SAP_VERSION_NUM
SAP_RECIPE_NUM
SAP_BOM_NUM
STATUS_DATE
RESOURCE_NETWORK_NUM
CREATE_DATE
RECIPE_STATUS_ID
ORIGINATOR_ID
OWNER_ID
RECIPE_DESCR
ESP_PARENT_RECIPE_ID
SPEC_MATERIAL_ID
COST_TEST_IND
PRODUCTION_SEND_DATE
STANDARDS_OVERRIDE_DATE
STANDARDS_OVERRIDE_USERID
MOD_USERID
MOD_DATE
ALT_PACK_METHOD_IND
ALT_PACK_METHOD_RECIPE_NUM
PLANT_RESOURCE_NETWORK_ID
THROUGHPUT_QTY
LB_DAY_QTY
CREW_QTY
OVERRIDE_PLANT_RESOURCE_NETWORK_ID
OVERRIDE_THROUGHPUT_QTY
OVERRIDE_LB_DAY_QTY
OVERRIDE_CREW_QTY
INVN_PT_RECIPE_TYPE_ID
VALID_START_DATE
VALID_END_DATE
BOM_TYPECUT_ROUTING:
ROUTING_ID
ROUTING_DESCR
ROUTING_SAP_ID
RATED_THROUGHPUT_QTY
FINAL_THROUGHPUT_OVRD_QTY
FINAL_THROUGHPUT_QTY
CREW_SIZE_QTY
STATUS_ID
CUT_ID
CREATE_USERID
CREATE_DATE
MOD_USERID
MOD_DATE
THROUGHPUT_OVRD_REASON_ID
LIMIT_THROUGHPUT_DESCR
PLANT_RESOURCE_ID
POSITION_TITLE_OVERRIDE_IDROUTING_POSITION_TITLE_XREF:
ROUTING_POSITION_TITLE_XREF_ID
ROUTING_ID
POSITION_TITLE_ID
WORKSTATION_QTY
OPTIMUM_CREWING_QTY
PER_PERSON_THROUGHPUT_RATE
CREATE_USERID
CREATE_DATE
MOD_USERID
MOD_DATEPLANT_RESOURCE:
PLANT_RESOURCE_ID
PLANT_ID
RESOURCE_NUMBER
RESOURCE_NAME
ACTIVE_IND
SAP_COST_CENTER_NUM
MOD_USERID
MOD_DATE
CONTROL_KEYFORMULATION:
FORMULATION_ID
MATERIAL_ID
NAME
VERSION
SECONDS
REJECTION_CRITERIA
METHOD_OF_PACK
STANDARDS
NET_WEIGHTFORMULATION_STEP_LINK:
FORMULATION_STEP_LINK_ID
FORMULATION_ID
SOURCE_STEP_NODE_ID
FORMULATION_STEP_NODE_ID
FALLBACK_NAME
PERCENT_STEP
UOMFORMULATION_STEP:
FORMULATION_STEP_ID
CORP_FORMULATION_STEP_ID
RECIPE_PART_ID
LEAST_COST_MATERIAL_ID
GROUP_YIELD_PCT
GROUP_SCRAP_PCT
RECIPE_TEXT
ESP_PUBLISH_JOB_ID
ESP_SYNCH_IND
PLANT_RESOURCE_NETWORK_ID
OVERRIDE_PLANT_RESOURCE_NETWORK_ID
OVERRIDE_GROUP_YIELD_PCT
OVERRIDE_GROUP_SCRAP_PCT
CORPORATE_PACK_METHOD_TEXT
CORP_FORMULATION_STEP:
CORP_FORMULATION_STEP_ID
FORMULATION_STEP_CODE
FORMULATION_STEP_TYPE
FORMULATION_STEP_DESCR
PROCESS_TYPE
PROCESS_DESCR
CORPORATE_INSTRUCTION_TEXT
CORPORATE_REJECTION_CRITERIA_TEXT
CORPORATE_STANDARDS_COMMENT
CORPORATE_PACK_METHOD_TEXT
OUTPUT_MATERIAL_ID
FORMULATION_STEP_VERSIONSTEP_COMPONENT:
STEP_COMPONENT_ID
PRIMARY_ITEM_IND
COMP_SCRAP_PCT
TOTAL_SCRAP_PCT
USAGE_PROBABILITY_PCT
STEP_COMPONENT_GROUP_ID
ITEM_CODE_TYPE_ID
MATERIAL_UOM_ID
FORMULATION_QTY
OVERRIDE_FORMULATION_QTY
YIELD_QTY
LEAD_DAYS
PLANT_MATERIAL_ID
ALT_USAGE_PROBABILITY_PCT
STEP_COMPONENT_GROUP:
STEP_COMPONENT_GROUP_ID
STEP_COMPONENT_GROUP_TYPE
STEP_COMPONENT_PCT
SEQUENCE
GRP_COPY_IND
ON_SPEC_IND
MAIN_INGREDIENT_OVERRIDE_IND
FORMULATION_STEP_ID
SECONDS_STEP_COMPONENT_GROUP_IDITEM_CODE_TYPE:
ITEM_CODE_TYPE_ID
SAP_TYPE_CODE
ITEM_CODE_TYPE_DESCR
ACTIVE_IND
SAP_ITEM_CODEFORMULATION_SECONDS:
FORMULATION_ID 
FORMULATION_SECOND_ID 
MATERIAL_NUM CUT_DETAIL:
CUT_DETAIL_ID
CUT_ID
OUTPUT_PLANT_MATERIAL_ID
YIELD_PCT
COST_CENTER_ID
CUT_TO_COMPLETE_ZERO_IND
BYPRODUCT_IND
MATERIAL_COST_SOURCE_FIXED
MATERIAL_COST_SOURCE_EQUIVELANCE
MATERIAL_COST_SOURCE_PRICE
FIXED_PRICE_IND
ENGR_YIELD_PCT
CREATE_USERID
CREATE_DATE
MOD_USERID
MOD_DATE
PRIMARY_IND
CALCULATION_TYPE
MATERIAL_COST_SOURCE_FIXED_OTHER
MATERIAL_COST_SOURCE_EQUIVELANCE_OTHER
MATERIAL_COST_SOURCE_PRICE_OTHER
FIXED_PRICE_OTHER_IND
MASTERCUT_IND
REMAINDER_IND
PRIMARY_LIVE_PCT_INDUOM:
UOM_ID
SAP_UOM_ABBR
UOM_ISO_CODE
UOM_DESCR
MEASUREMENT_DESCR
Recipe
Throughputs (Base Quantity)1.
Crew (3rdStandard Value) 2.
Recipe Steps3.
Resource Assignment.4.
BOM
Components (WIP/Phantom/Ingredients/Packaging)1.
Usage Percentage2.
Scrap Factor3.
Seconds / Byproducts4.
Seconds / Byproducts Percentage5.
Item Category (Stock / Non -Stock, Etc.) 6.
Unit of Measure7.
We will keep to the same constraints to eliminate Phantom BOM’s and unchecked inventory 
points.  Phantoms as a component will need to be considered.
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 692    
5/23:
1114
1057 still showing unchecked
Why is zeeland not returning the home screen with what details show
Table 1504 
1065 removed
Compare this with berryville to clarksville
Clarksville Unchecked inventory point 906383 recipe number
Angelica 
5/29:
Boms in bom portal could be potent
Can we wipe everything and reload all from SAP and just 
Reach out to data team to review the query to see why unchecked points are still in one position not in 
another
I need someone to look into unchecked inventory points and why they're still showing on the report. 
If user reporting something out of this 
Component scrap percentage not showing correctly 
INC3398027
Plant 2341 Material 10000010171
Ask about crewing 3rdstandard value PIO5 is the step to have throughput and crewing
and bom portal network and resource is an attribute where that product is run at in the plant  if that’s bom 
portal centric or somewhere in SAP 
Recon Review with Business
Friday, May 23, 2025 10:42 AM
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 693    
Requirements Document: SAP BOM Portal Reconciliation Enhancements
 Purpose To outline requirements for enhancing the SAP BOM Portal reconciliation logic and 
dashboard in order to meet business expectations and improve data accuracy, traceability, and 
visibility across BOM records between SAP and the BOM Portal.
 Scope of Reconciliation The current logic identifies discrepancies between SAP and BOM 
Portal at the material level, using plant and material number as keys. It highlights records where a 
BOM exists in one system but not the other.
✅Inclusions
Version Checks:1.
Compare BOM version 31 in BOM Portal with version 3031 in SAP . •
Show mismatches as actionable discrepancies.•
Display Enhancements:2.
Include the following fields from BOM Portal in the output:•
Recipe ID•
BOM Version•
BOM Description•
Material Filters:3.
Exclude Engineering BOMs (e.g., BOM Usage code = '2' in SAP). •
Exclude unchecked inventory points in both systems (filter logic to be confirmed). •
 Reporting and UI Requirements
Create a Power BI tab or drill -through view to: •
Show discrepancies by Plant, Material, and BOM Version.•
Allow filtering by BOM Type (Production/Finance only). •
Visualize mismatched version numbers.•
Highlight missing BOMs or mismatched material type information.•
 Future Phase: Component -Level Drill Down
Enable drill -down from matched BOM versions into: •
Component -level data , including: •
Material components•
Quantity structures•
Yield, Scrap, and UOM fields•
Compare SAP and BOM Portal values side -by-side for validation. •Requirements
Tuesday, April 15, 2025 10:34 AM
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 694    
 Next Steps
Review requirements with stakeholders from Costing, Accounting, and Ops.•
Confirm logic to identify unchecked inventory points.•
Begin prototype enhancement of the existing Power BI report.•
Coordinate with development to validate version comparison logic (31 vs 3031).•
Prepared by: Greg Homstad, IT Product Owner
Date: [Insert Date]
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 695    
mysql_bom_mysql_bom_mysql_internal
Table Table ID Last Modification 
time (UTC –5) 
Approximate
Plant_Material_XREF prod-2134 -
entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bom_mysql_bom_m
ysql_internal.plant_material_xref_current11:00PM
Plant prod-2134 -
entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bom_mysql_bom_m
ysql_internal.plant_current12:00AM
Material prod-2134 -
entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bom_mysql_bom_m
ysql_internal.material_current10:00PM
mysql_bompdb_prod_bom_mysql_restricted_confidential
corp_formulation_step_cha
nge_histprod -2134 -
entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bompdb_prod_bom_
mysql_restricted_confidential.corp_formulation_s
tep_change_hist7:00PM
corp_formulation_step_cur
rentprod -2134 -
entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bompdb_prod_bom_
mysql_restricted_confidential.corp_formulation_s
tep_current7:00PM
formulation_step_change_
histprod -2134 -
entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bompdb_prod_bom_
mysql_restricted_confidential.formulation_step_c
hange_hist2:15AM
formulation_step_current prod -2134 -
entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bompdb_prod_bom_
mysql_restricted_confidential.formulation_step_c
urrent2:15AM
recipe_change_hist prod -2134 -
entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bompdb_prod_bom_
mysql_restricted_confidential.recipe_change_hist12:30AM
Recipe_Current prod -2134 -
entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bompdb_prod_bom_
mysql_restricted_confidential.recipe_current12:30AM
step_component_change_
histprod -2134 -
entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bompdb_prod_bom_
mysql_restricted_confidential.step_component_c
hange_hist1:00AM
step_component_current prod -2134 -
entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bompdb_prod_bom_
mysql_restricted_confidential.step_component_c1:00AMIngestion
Wednesday, April 30, 2025 12:50 PM
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 696    
mysql_restricted_confidential.step_component_c
urrent
step_component_group_ch
ange_histprod -2134 -
entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bompdb_prod_bom_
mysql_restricted_confidential.step_component_gr
oup_change_hist7:00PM
step_component_group_cu
rrentprod -2134 -
entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bompdb_prod_bom_
mysql_restricted_confidential.step_component_gr
oup_current7:00PM
mysql_bompdb_prod_bom_mysql_lake
This table is currently not updated, in GCP it was last modified on April 16, 2025 @ 11:00AM
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 697    
material_num - - - -
Key
plant_num STRING REQUIR
ED- - - -
Key
bom_usage STRING REQUIR
ED- - - -
Key
bill_of_mat
erialSTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
alternative
_bomSTRING REQUIR
ED- - - -
Key
metadata_
hub_checks
umBYTES NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
metadata_
hub_curren
t_flagBOOLEA
NNULLAB
LE- - - -
-
metadata_
hub_last_v
alid_row_fl
agBOOLEA
NNULLAB
LE- - - -
-
metadata_
hub_physic
al_delete_fl
agBOOLEA
NNULLAB
LE- - - -
-
metadata_
hub_begin_
timestampTIMEST
AMPNULLAB
LE- - - -
-
metadata_
hub_end_ti
mestampTIMEST
AMPNULLAB
LE- - - -
-
metadata_
hub_row_i
nsert_times
tampTIMEST
AMPNULLAB
LE- - - -
-
metadata_
hub_row_u
pdate_time
stampTIMEST
AMPNULLAB
LE- - - -
-
Edit schemaView row access policiesMaterial
_typeField name Type Mode Key Collation Default 
ValuePolicy 
Tags Descriptio
n
material_type_c
odeSTRING REQUIRE
D- - - -
Key
material_type_d
escrSTRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
material_type STRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
metadata_hub_
checksumBYTES NULLABL
E- - - -
-
metadata_hub_
current_flagBOOLEAN NULLABL
E- - - -
-
metadata_hub_l
ast_valid_row_fl
agBOOLEAN NULLABL
E- - - -
-
metadata_hub_
physical_delete
_flagBOOLEAN NULLABL
E- - - -
-
metadata_hub_
begin_timestam
pTIMESTA
MPNULLABL
E- - - -
-
metadata_hub_
end_timestampTIMESTA
MPNULLABL
E- - - -
-
metadata_hub_
row_insert_time
stampTIMESTA
MPNULLABL
E- - - -
-
metadata_hub_
row_update_ti
mestampTIMESTA
MPNULLABL
E-
md_material
Filter
Field name Type Mode Key Collation Default 
ValuePolicy 
Tags Descriptio
n
material_num STRING REQUIRE
D- - - -
Key
material_descr STRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
material STRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
material_short_nu
mSTRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
material_num_lon
gSTRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
material_type_cod
eSTRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
catch_weight_mat
erial_flagBOOLEA
NNULLABL
E- - - -
-
material_base_gro
ss_weightNUMERI
CNULLABL
E- - - -
-
material_base_gro
ss_weight_uomSTRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
material_base_net
_weightNUMERI
CNULLABL
E- - - -
-
material_base_net
_weight_uomSTRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
material_cs_gross
_weight_in_lbsNUMERI
CNULLABL
E- - - -
-
material_cs_net_
weight_in_lbsNUMERI
CNULLABL
E- - - -
-
material_valuation
_uomSTRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
material_volume_f
actorNUMERI
CNULLABL
E- - - -
-
material_volume_
uomSTRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
material_case_tar
e_weight_in_lbsNUMERI
CNULLABL
E- - - -
-
material_case_vol
umeNUMERI
CNULLABL
E- - - -
-
material_case_vol
ume_uomSTRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
material_case_hei
ghtNUMERI
CNULLABL
E- - - -
-
material_case_len
gthNUMERI
CNULLABL
E- - - -
-
material_case_wid
thNUMERI
CNULLABL
E- - - -
-
material_manufac
turer_numSTRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
material_manufac
turer_part_numSTRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
material_human_
edible_flagBOOLEA
NNULLABL
E- - - -
-
material_general_i
tem_category_gro
up_codeSTRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
material_purchasi
ng_value_keySTRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
material_stack_fac
torINTEGER NULLABL
E- - - -
-
product_hierarchy STRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
batch_managed_fl
agBOOLEA
NNULLABL
E- - - -
-
min_remaining_sh
elf_lifeINTEGER NULLABL
E- - - -
-
shelf_life INTEGER NULLABL
E- - - -
-
material_base_uo
mSTRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
material_group_c
odeSTRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
protein_hierarchy STRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
profit_center_cod
eSTRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
material_avail_che
ck_codeSTRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-Select material_num
From md_material
WHERE material_type_code = zfg
md_trade_specification
trade_specification_num
Md_material_plant
Md_material_to_bom
SELECT   
Distinct (Material_num ), material_short_num , material_type_code 
FROM   
`prod -2135 -entdatahub -a44fd9.hub.md_material` 
INNER JOIN 
'prod -2135 -entdatahub -a44fd9.hub.md_material_to_bom' on 
hub.md_material_to_bom.material_num =  `prod -2135 -entdatahub -
a44fd9.hub.md_material.,material_num"
where material_type_code in ('ZFG' ,'ZSWP' )Select 
prod -2135 -entdatahub -a44fd9.hub.md_material_to_bom
CHECK IN pROD TO VISUALIZE DATA RELATED TO BOM PORTAL COMPARE SOME OF THE TABLE FIELDS 
SO WE CAN COME UP WITH CERTAIN POINTS REGARDING QUERY GENERATED BOM -SAP Recon
Tuesday, March 11, 2025 1:36 PM
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 698    
ck_code E -
non_premium_ma
terial_flagBOOLEA
NNULLABL
E- - - -
-
brand_code STRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
material_sub_busi
ness_unit_codeSTRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
targeted_sales_ch
annel_codeSTRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
animal_raise_desi
gnation_codeSTRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
ship_by_days INTEGER NULLABL
E- - - -
-
max_shelf_life_ext INTEGER NULLABL
E- - - -
-
max_shelf_life INTEGER NULLABL
E- - - -
-
storage_req_code STRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
advanced_date_fl
agBOOLEA
NNULLABL
E- - - -
-
targeted_distributi
on_channel_codeSTRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
material_division_
codeSTRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
material_status_cr
oss_plant_codeSTRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
material_deletion
_flag_client_levelBOOLEA
NNULLABL
E- - - -
-
cross_distribution
_channel_status_c
odeSTRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
catch_weight_tole
rance_groupSTRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 699    
Here’s a cleaned -up and more concise version of your reconciliation document. I’ve combined related 
sections, eliminated redundancy, and kept your technical detail intact:
SAP to BOM_MySQL Reconciliation in GCP
Overview
This document outlines the 1:1 reconciliation process between SAP and BOM_MySQL data in GCP. The 
preferred architecture involves pulling SAP data out of the Hub, though it's currently housed in the Lake.
Data Ingestion Requirements
SAP → GCP
SAP Table Purpose Key Fields
MAST Links material to BOM MATNR, WERKS, STLAN, STLAL, STLNR
STKO BOM header details STLNR, WERKS, STLTY, VALID_TO
STPO BOM components STLNR, STLKN, IDNRK, MENGE
MARA Material master data MATNR, MTART, etc.
T001W Plant master WERKS, NAME1, etc.
STAS (Optional) BOM version info STLNR, BOM_VERSN
BOM_MySQL → GCP
BOM_MySQL Table Purpose GCP Table GCP Fields
RECIPE Recipe metadata & validity ...recipe_current VALID_END_DATE
MATERIAL Material master for BOMP ...md_material Material_short_nu
m
PLANT Plant metadata TBD TBD
PLANT_MATERIAL_XRE
FJoin between plant and 
materialTBD TBD
Key Matching Logic
Composite Key for Reconciliation:
(MATNR + WERKS + VALID_TO) = (MATERIAL_NUM + PLANT_CODE + VALID_END_DATE)
If the above condition holds, a 1:1 mapping between SAP and BOM_MySQL is established.
Synchronization Considerations
Ensure SAP_BOM_NUM is backfilled in BOM_MySQL.•
Validate that no duplicates exist in either dataset.•
Confirm GCP fields like metadata_hub_row_insert_timestamp and •Wednesday, March 26, 2025 8:29 AM
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 700    
Confirm GCP fields like metadata_hub_row_insert_timestamp and 
metadata_hub_current_flag are accurate.•
GCP + SAP Field Mapping Summary
GCP Table Key Fields of Interest
md_material material_num, material_descr, material_type_code, 
material_created_on_date
md_material_to_bom material_num, plant_code, bom_usage, bill_of_material, alternative_bom
md_bom_usage bom_usage_code, bom_usage_descr
txn_bom_cost_estimate costing_date, material_num, header_material_num, header_plant_num
Reconciliation Steps
Identify Composite Keys : Join material and plant to derive STLNR from MAST. 1.
Update BOM_MySQL with SAP_BOM_NUM : Using matched STLNR (via DBA/Data Engineer). 2.
Auto -populate SAP_BOM_NUM on BOM changes : Trigger population during create/update workflows. 3.
Apply Validity Filtering : Only keep STLNRs with VALID_TO = 12/31/9999 . 4.
Query Example: Valid Material
SELECT * 
FROM `hub.md_material` 
WHERE material_short_num = "" 
AND metadata_hub_current_flag = TRUE;
SAP Interaction Example
Material : 10283180928
Plant : 1176
BOM Usage : 6
Alternative BOM : 0001
SAP Recipe Response:
Header Changed: Recipe 50093466, GroupCounter 01•
Ops Added: Recipe 50093466, GroupCounter 01•
Assignments Created: Recipe 50057177, GroupCounter 01•
This activity updates STPO with a new "Changed on" and "Created on" date and sets the validity to 
12/31/9999 .
GCP Synchronization Gap
SAP appears to be ahead of GCP. md_material.metadata_hub_row_insert_timestamp and 
metadata_hub_current_flag can indicate stale rows. Updates in SAP do not consistently reflect in 
GCP.
Action Plan
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 701    
Action Plan
Action Owner Status
Finalize composite key logic Greg ❌
Ingest SAP tables into BigQuery Deepthi ⏳
Ingest BOM_MySQL tables into BigQuery Deepthi + Dice ⏳
Validate 1:1 key mapping Greg ⏳
Build automated reconciliation report Greg ⏳
Acceptance Criteria
SAP_BOM_NUM populated in BOM_MySQL (strongly recommended)•
No duplicate BOMs in RECIPE•
100% match rate in SQL queries•
Automated BigQuery pipeline validates reconciliation•
Benefits of SAP_BOM_NUM Integration
Precise SAP -BOM Portal Linking : Eliminates ambiguity by enabling joins to STPO/STKO/MAST. •
Component -Level Reconciliation : Tools like CSAP_MAT_BOM_READ and CS_BOM_EXPL_MAT_V2 require 
STLNR.•
Enable Robust Automation : STLNR is essential for syncing, audits, and automated reporting. •
Issues and Missing Data
Some SAP material fields (e.g., creation date for 10292340043) are absent in BOM_MySQL. Tables like 
recipe_change_hist in BOM_MySQL can't be reconciled without additional SAP context. These gaps 
must be resolved via ingestion of missing SAP tables.
Conclusion
This document provides a full plan for SAP to BOM_MySQL reconciliation in GCP, supporting better 
reporting, costing, and data integrity. The key recommendation is the adoption and population of 
SAP_BOM_NUM to ensure reliable 1:1 mapping and sustainable automation across systems.
Let me know if you'd like this in a presentation format or want a visual map of the data flow.
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 702    
Md_bom_usage –BOM usage codes, description, etc
Md_material_to_bom –Material num, plant_num, bom_usage, bill_of_material, alternative_bom
Txn_bom_cost_estimate -
Txn_bom_cost_estimate_bkpTables
Wednesday, March 12, 2025 2:08 PM
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 703    
You can establish a 1:1 relationship at the BOM level (and extend to component/material level) by 
aligning SAP BOM identifiers and versioning details stored in BOM Portal's RECIPE table with their 
corresponding entries in SAP tables such as MAST , STKO , and STPO .
 Core Link: RECIPE Table (BOM Portal) ↔ SAP STPO , STKO , MAST
1. Identify the SAP BOM Record
From RECIPE in BOM Portal: 
SAP_BOM_NUM•
SAP_RECIPE_NUM •
SAP_VERSION_NUM•
PLANT_MATERIAL_ID (link to PLANT_MATERIAL_XREF → MATERIAL_ID ) •
VALID_START_DATE , VALID_END_DATE ••
BOM directly correspond to: 
STLNR in MAST •
STKO.STLNR and STPO.STLNR (SAP BOM Header and Component data) ••
2. Compare Component Validity
When a recipe is edited and submitted, the STPO table's:
DATUV (Valid From) •
ANDAT (Created On) •
VALID_TO•
are updated to match the changes initiated in the portal.
You can track this via COMPONENT_EDIT_AUDIT (in BOM Portal), which logs:
COMPONENT_PLANT_MATERIAL•
MOD_DATE → should match STPO.ANDAT or DATUV in SAP •
ACTION_DESCR → describes what was changed •••
3. Validation Pattern
You can validate a 1:1 relationship by querying:
--Get BOM and Recipe Info from BOM Portal
SELECT r.RECIPE_ID, r.SAP_BOM_NUM, r.SAP_RECIPE_NUM, r.PLANT_MATERIAL_ID, 
r.VALID_START_DATE
FROM RECIPE r
WHERE r.SAP_BOM_NUM = '00040601';
--Check corresponding SAP STPO entries for changes
--(Assume this is from a read -replica or external SAP -accessed view)
SELECT *
FROM SAP_STPO
WHERE STLNR = '00040601';
If:
STPO.DATUV , ANDAT , and VALID_TO are updated in sync with a RECIPE.MOD_DATE •
The materials match with COMPONENT_PLANT_MATERIAL values •
Then you’ve established a 1:1 traceable relationship.
 Synchronization Tracking
You can also use:
RECIPE_AUDIT and RECIPE_SUBMIT_JOB_HISTORY in BOM Portal to track successful 
submissions and updates•
RECON_RECIPE table to store reconciliation results (validations/errors between BOM Portal and 
SAP)•
Highlight mismatches in: 
Component valid from/valid to dates•
Material numbers•
SAP_BOM_NUM alignment••
Would you like help building a SQL or Power BI query to generate a 1:1 validation report from this data?
Great clarification, Greg —and yes, you're absolutely on the right track. If SAP_BOM_NUM and 
SAP_RECIPE_NUM are not populated in BOM Portal, and you're looking to identify current active 
BOMs—especially via GCP and SAP—then using a composite key of plant + material + 
valid_from_date is a very solid and likely the most reliable approach .
Let’s walk through how that would work and why that composite key is the best candidate for 1:1 
mapping and active BOM detection.
✅Composite Key Approach: PLANT_ID + MATERIAL_ID + VALID_START_DATE
This mirrors how SAP structures BOMs in the following ways:
SAP Table MAST stores BOM headers with: 
MATNR (material) •
WERKS (plant) •
STLNR (BOM number) ••
SAP Table STPO stores components with: 
DATUV (valid from) •
ANDAT (created on) •
IDNRK (component material) ••
Validity in SAP is determined by VALID_TO . •
So, matching the BOM Portal schema:
RECIPE.PLANT_MATERIAL_ID → resolves to both plant and material via 
PLANT_MATERIAL_XREF•
RECIPE.VALID_START_DATE → matches STPO.DATUV •
And we can assume the latest valid recipe (whose VALID_END_DATE is NULL or 9999-12-31) is 
the current one.•
 Why Composite Key is the Best Approach
  Strengths 
Fully available from both BOM Portal and SAP•
Maps cleanly to BOM header/component logic•
Doesn't rely on missing IDs ( SAP_BOM_NUM , SAP_RECIPE_NUM ) •
Can be queried in GCP or SAP easily•Each method varies based on access level , automation needs , and SAP system type .
Method Access Level 
NeededBest For Automation 
PotentialComplexi
ty
          Manual SAP Ta ble 
E portBasic SAP 
accessOne-time 
reconciliationManual export Easy
         QuickViewer  oi n 
QueryBasic SAP 
accessAd-hoc reporting Manual 
executionEasy
         SAP Query  Reu sable 
Report)Basis -approved 
user accessRecurring reports Can be scheduled Moderat
e
         SQL Trace  Find 
System Queries)SAP debugging 
accessUnderstanding SAP’s 
internal SQLManual trace Moderat
e
               Direct SQL 
Query on SAP DBDBA or HANA 
accessRunning real SQL 
queriesAutomated data 
pullsHard
                       
BOM E trac on via APIRFC-enabled 
userReal -time BOM 
fetchCan be used in 
Python/ABAPModerat
e
                      
Alterna ve to 
BAPI BOM GETDETAILRFC-enabled 
userSingle -level BOM 
retrievalAutomatable 
with PythonModerat
e
                       
Mul  Level BOM DataRFC-enabled 
userMulti -level BOMs Can be used for 
batch syncsHard
                   Generic 
Table Data E tractRFC-enabled 
userQuerying SAP tables 
programmaticallyCan be 
automated with 
PythonModerat
e
 SAP BW / CDS Views –
Reporting Layer ExtractsBasis & BW 
TeamPre-built reporting 
tablesScheduled 
reporting via 
BW/BIHIf possible, talk to your SAP team about populating SAP_BOM_NUM from MAST/STPO via:
Custom extract•
BAPI (e.g., BAPI_BOM_GET_DETAIL ) •
A one -time migration job •
Having SAP_BOM_NUM will greatly simplify long -term reconciliation .
 Strategy for Real -Time or Active BOM Comparison via GCP & SAP
 1. From SAP: Build a Real -Time View via RFC or CDS
Using:
MAST→ to get active BOM numbers•
STKO→ filter by DATUV <= today , LOEKZ = '' •
STPO→ pull current components ( VALID_TO = 99991231 ) •
Expose via:
RFC (BAPI or custom FM) , or •
CDS View or OData Service from S/4HANA •
Filter to just current BOMs by:
sql
CopyEdit
STKO.DATUV <= CURRENT_DATE AND STPO.VALID_TO = '99991231'
 2. From BOM Portal: Generate Matching Dataset
Use this MySQL query:
sql
CopyEdit
SELECT 
    m.MATERIAL_NUM AS MATNR,
    p.PLANT_CODE AS WERKS,
    r.VALID_START_DATE AS DATUV,
    sc.STEP_COMPONENT_ID AS IDNRK,
    sc.YIELD_QTY AS MENGE
FROM 
    RECIPE r
JOIN 
    PLANT_MATERIAL_XREF pmx ON r.PLANT_MATERIAL_ID = pmx.PLANT_MATERIAL_ID
JOIN 
    MATERIAL m ON pmx.MATERIAL_ID = m.MATERIAL_ID
JOIN 
    PLANT p ON pmx.PLANT_ID = p.PLANT_ID
JOIN 
    STEP_COMPONENT sc ON sc.PLANT_MATERIAL_ID = r.PLANT_MATERIAL_ID
WHERE 
    r.VALID_END_DATE IS NULL;
 3. Match SAP ↔BOM Portal in GCP or Python
Either in:
BigQuery (preferred for scale) •
Python (good for scriptable comparison) •
Dataform / dbt if you’re using a modeling layer in GCP •
Compare:
(MATNR, WERKS, DATUV, IDNRK, MENGE) between systems •
This gives you row-level mismatches or gaps in BOMs.
 Why This Works
Even if you don’t store STLNR , SAP maintains 1:1 BOM mapping via:
MAST.MATNR + WERKS•
Each MATNR + WERKS has a default BOM ( STLAL = 1 ) •
STKO/STPO maintain validity dates ( DATUV , VALID_TO ) which you can mirror with your 
VALID_START_DATE•
So even without SAP_BOM_NUM , you’re essentially re -deriving the current BOM snapshot dynamically.
✅Final Answer to Andre’s Question:
“Is there any other way besides storing SAP_BOM_NUM to reconcile?”
Yes —by leveraging:
Material Number•
Plant•
Valid From Date (or the latest active version) •
Component ID•
Quantity•
You can dynamically rebuild 1:1 relationships for active BOMs, especially if your MySQL or GCP dataset 
includes effective dates like VALID_START_DATE .
 Optional: If You Want to Backfill SAP_BOM_NUM
You could create a daily sync job to:
Pull active BOMs from SAP ( MAST , STKO ) 1.
Match by material + plant + valid date2.
Write matched SAP_BOM_NUM back to your RECIPE table for traceability 3.BOM 1:1
Friday, March 21, 2025 10:05 AM
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 704    
 Why Composite Key is the Best Approach
  Strengths 
Fully available from both BOM Portal and SAP•
Maps cleanly to BOM header/component logic•
Doesn't rely on missing IDs ( SAP_BOM_NUM , SAP_RECIPE_NUM ) •
Can be queried in GCP or SAP easily•
Can be cross -verified using CS03 or SAP APIs •
 Sample Logic to Identify Current BOMs (GCP + SAP)
In BOM Portal (GCP SQL):
--Identify active recipes (current BOMs)
SELECT r.RECIPE_ID, m.MATERIAL_NUM, p.PLANT_CODE, r.VALID_START_DATE
FROM RECIPE r
JOIN PLANT_MATERIAL_XREF pmx ON r.PLANT_MATERIAL_ID = pmx.PLANT_MATERIAL_ID
JOIN MATERIAL m ON pmx.MATERIAL_ID = m.MATERIAL_ID
JOIN PLANT p ON pmx.PLANT_ID = p.PLANT_ID
WHERE r.VALID_END_DATE IS NULL
   OR r.VALID_END_DATE = '9999 -12-31'
ORDER BY r.VALID_START_DATE DESC;
In SAP (Pseudocode or API Filter):
SELECT MATNR, WERKS, STLNR, DATUV, IDNRK
FROM STPO
WHERE VALID_TO = '9999 -12-31'
Then match:
MATNR↔ MATERIAL_NUM •
WERKS↔ PLANT_CODE •
DATUV↔ VALID_START_DATE •
 Optional Enhancements
Add RECON tables (like RECON_RECIPE )for automated reconciliation •
Alert or flag mismatches if a BOM exists in one system but not the other •
Automate API calls to SAP from GCP using SAP BAPI or oData connectors to verify in near real -
time•
Push matched sets to BigQuery for scalable reporting •
✅Final Takeaway
Yes —composite key of plant + material + start date is not only feasible but also the most accurate, 
schema -supported, and audit -traceable way to establish a 1:1 relationship and identify active BOMs in 
Nice work, Greg —since you've already pulled current active BOMs using the composite key ( plant + 
material + valid_from_date ) from the BOM Portal DB , here’s exactly what you should do in SAP
to complete the reconciliation and validate that 1:1 relationship.
 Step -by-Step in SAP
✅1. Use Transaction Code CS03 (Display BOM)
For each BOM Portal record:
Material: Use MATERIAL_NUM •
Plant: Use PLANT_CODE •
BOM Usage: Typically 6(custom/internal usage) •
Alternative BOM: Default 01unless otherwise specified •
Then: 
Check component list •
Check valid from date (DATUV) on each component •
Compare to VALID_START_DATE in BOM Portal ••
If you're scripting or exporting instead, move to step 2 below.
✅2. Pull SAP Tables for Reconciliation
If you have table access (SE16N or via RFC/BAPI), run:
A. MAST–Get BOM # ( STLNR )
SELECT MATNR, WERKS, STLNR
FROM MAST
WHERE MATNR = '10283180928'
  AND WERKS = '1176';
B. STPO–Get BOM Components + Validity
SELECT STLNR, IDNRK, DATUV, ANDAT, VALID_TO
FROM STPO
WHERE STLNR = [From MAST];
C. STKO–Get BOM Header Info
SELECT STLNR, STLAL, DATUV, AENNR, AEDAT
FROM STKO
WHERE STLNR = [From MAST];
What  ou’re Looking  or:
DATUV (valid from) matches your RECIPE.VALID_START_DATE •
VALID_TO = 9999-12-31(active BOM) •
ANDAT or AEDAT (changed on) ≈RECIPE.MOD_DATE or COMPONENT_EDIT_AUDIT.MOD_DATE •
✅3. Optional: Use SAP Reports or BAPIs
If you want to automate or get full BOMs in bulk:
BAPI : BAPI_BOM_GETDETAIL•
Input: Material , Plant , BOM Usage , Alternative BOM
→ Returns: Header + components
Function Module : CS_BOM_EXPL_MAT_V2 •
Useful for exploded views (multi -level BOM)
✅4. Confirm 1:1 Mapping
For each recipe in BOM Portal:
Confirm you can match 1:1 to a BOM in SAP using: 
Material + Plant + Valid From Date (→ maps to MATNR , WERKS , DATUV ) ••
Optional: Flag missing or mismatched entries in a recon table like RECON_RECIPE •
 Example Summary Match                   Generic 
Table Data E tractRFC-enabled 
userQuerying SAP tables 
programmaticallyCan be 
automated with 
PythonModerat
e
 SAP BW / CDS Views –
Reporting Layer ExtractsBasis & BW 
TeamPre-built reporting 
tablesScheduled 
reporting via 
BW/BIH
Great question, Greg! Here’s a detailed breakdown of all the options you have to reconcile BOM data 
between SAP and your external system (e.g., BOM Portal, GCP, or other DBs) .
 RECONCILIATION OPTIONS
Each method varies based on access level , automation needs , and SAP system type .
Method Access Level 
NeededBest For Automation 
PotentialComplexi
ty
          Manual SAP Ta ble 
E portBasic SAP 
accessOne-time 
reconciliationManual export Easy
         QuickViewer  oi n 
QueryBasic SAP 
accessAd-hoc reporting Manual 
executionEasy
         SAP Query  Reu sable 
Report)Basis -approved 
user accessRecurring reports Can be scheduled Moderat
e
         SQL Trace  Find 
System Queries)SAP debugging 
accessUnderstanding SAP’s 
internal SQLManual trace Moderat
e
               Direct SQL 
Query on SAP DBDBA or HANA 
accessRunning real SQL 
queriesAutomated data 
pullsHard
                       
BOM E trac on via APIRFC-enabled 
userReal -time BOM 
fetchCan be used in 
Python/ABAPModerat
e
                      
Alterna ve to 
BAPI BOM GETDETAILRFC-enabled 
userSingle -level BOM 
retrievalAutomatable 
with PythonModerat
e
                       
Mul  Level BOM DataRFC-enabled 
userMulti -level BOMs Can be used for 
batch syncsHard
                   Generic 
Table Data E tractRFC-enabled 
userQuerying SAP tables 
programmaticallyCan be 
automated with 
PythonModerat
e
 SAP BW / CDS Views –
Reporting Layer ExtractsBasis & BW 
TeamPre-built reporting 
tablesScheduled 
reporting via 
BW/BIHard
          Manual SAP Table E port  Quick   Easy)
 Best for: One-time reconciliation or basic checks.
How to do it:
Go to SE16N 1.
Enter Table Name (e.g., STPO for BOM components) 2.
Set filter conditions: 
VALID_TO = 99991231 (Active BOMs) •
WERKS = 1176 (Optional plant filter) •3.
Execute (F8)4.
Export Data: List → Export → Spreadsheet 5.
Compare it with your external system.6.
✅Pros: No coding required, easy to use.
❌Cons: Manual, not scalable.
         QuickViewer  Ad  hoc Repor ng)
 Best for: One-time report joining multiple SAP tables (e.g., MAST + STPO ).
How to do it:
Go to SQVI 1.
Create a New Query : 
Data source: Table Join •
Add tables: MAST (BOM Header) + STPO (BOM Components) •2.
Define Joins: 
MAST.STLNR = STPO.STLNR•3.
Select Fields: 
MAST.MATNR , WERKS , STLNR •
STPO.IDNRK , DATUV , VALID_TO •4.
Apply Filters: VALID_TO = 99991231 5.
Execute and Export Results6.
✅Pros: Easy to use, allows table joins.
❌Cons: Still manual unless converted to an SQ01 query .
         SAP Query  Reusable Repor ng)
 Best for: Recurring reports that you want to schedule.
How to do it:
Go to SQ01 1.
Create a new query in a user group. 2.
Define Tables & Joins (like SQVI). 3.
Set filters (VALID_TO = 99991231 ). 4.
Save & execute.5.
✅Pros: Reusable and can be scheduled . Optional: If You Want to Backfill SAP_BOM_NUM
You could create a daily sync job to:
Pull active BOMs from SAP ( MAST , STKO ) 1.
Match by material + plant + valid date2.
Write matched SAP_BOM_NUM back to your RECIPE table for traceability 3.
This makes historical tracking and rollback possible in the future.
Let me know if you want:
A Python script to do this comparison from SAP to GCP •
A BigQuery transformation to automate this match •
Help exploring the CDS/BAPI route for live SAP data into GCP•
You're very close —just need to wire up the dynamic match logic  
4o
O
Search
Deep research
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 705    
Confirm you can match 1:1 to a BOM in SAP using: 
Material + Plant + Valid From Date (→ maps to MATNR , WERKS , DATUV ) ••
Optional: Flag missing or mismatched entries in a recon table like RECON_RECIPE •
 Example Summary Match
BOM Portal SAP
MATERIAL_NUM STPO.MATNR
PLANT_CODE STPO.WERKS
VALID_START_DATE STPO.DATUV
MOD_DATE STPO.ANDAT / STKO.AEDAT
COMPONENT_EDIT_AUDIT STPO.IDNRK + ACTIONS
Let me know if you want:
A reconciliation script to compare SAP and GCP exports•
A template for recon logs in RECON_RECIPE •
Help calling BAPI_BOM_GETDETAIL to automate validation •
You're really close to a full end -to-end 1:1 BOM match pipeline   
2. Call SAP RFC or BAPI Functions (Best for GCP Integration)
Use when: You want to pull data into GCP or an external tool (ETL -style)
 BAPIs:
BAPI_BOM_GETHEADER•
BAPI_BOM_GETDETAIL•
RFC_READ_TABLE (generic table reader) •
 In GCP (via Cloud Function or Python Script):
python
CopyEdit
from pyrfc import Connection
conn = Connection(ashost='sap.yourcompany.com', sysnr='00', client='100',
                  user='youruser', passwd='yourpassword', lang='EN')
result = conn.call('RFC_READ_TABLE', QUERY_TABLE='MAST', DELIMITER='|',
                   OPTIONS=[{'TEXT': "MATNR = '10283180928' AND WERKS = 
'1176'"}])
  Output can be pushed to BigQuery or stored in Cloud Storage.
Option 2: Custom ABAP Report (for Scheduled Exports)
Ask your SAP dev team to create a simple ABAP program like:
abap
CopyEdit
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM STPO
  INTO lv_total
  WHERE VALID_TO = '99991231'
  AND LOEKZ = ''.
WRITE: / 'Total Active BOM Components:', lv_total.
Option 4: Export via RFC_READ_TABLE (For Automation)
If you're using Python or a tool that supports RFC:
python
CopyEdit
result = conn.call('RFC_READ_TABLE', QUERY_TABLE='STPO', 
                   OPTIONS=[{'TEXT': "VALID_TO = '99991231'"}])
print(f"Total valid components: {len(result['DATA'])}")Go to SQ01 1.
Create a new query in a user group. 2.
Define Tables & Joins (like SQVI). 3.
Set filters (VALID_TO = 99991231 ). 4.
Save & execute.5.
✅Pros: Reusable and can be scheduled .
❌Cons: Requires setup, not real -time.
         SQL Trace  Find Out SAP s Internal Queries)
 Best for: Understanding SAP’s internal SQL queries .
How to do it:
Go to ST05 1.
Activate SQL Trace2.
Run CS03 or your BOM -related transaction. 3.
Stop the trace and analyze queries. 4.
Copy SAP's exact SQL queries for use in DBACOCKPIT or a custom ABAP program . 5.
✅Pros:Helps find SAP’s real SQL logic.
❌Cons:Can’t directly run queries, just traces them.
               Running Direct SQL Queries
 Best for: Users with HANA or DBA access .
How to do it:
Go to DBACOCKPIT 1.
Open SQL Editor 2.
Run a query like: SELECT MATNR, WERKS, STLNR FROM MAST WHERE MATNR = 
'10283180928' AND WERKS = '1176';3.
Export results.4.
✅Pros: Pure SQL, best for bulk queries .
❌Cons: Requires DBA access .
                       Get BOM via API
 Best for: Real -time BOM extraction .
How to call BAPI in Python:
from pyrfc import Connection
conn = Connection(ashost='sap_host', sysnr='00', client='100',
                  user='your_user', passwd='your_password', lang='EN')
result = conn.call('BAPI_BOM_GETDETAIL', MATERIAL='10283180928',
                   PLANT='1176', BOM_USAGE='6', ALTERNATIVE='01')
for item in result['BOMITEMS']:
    print(f"Component: {item['COMPONENT']} | Qty: {item['COMP_QTY']}")
✅Pros: Real -time data , automatable.
❌Cons: Requires RFC access .
                      Alterna ve BAPI
 Best for: Single -level BOM retrieval.
Same process as BAPI_BOM_GETDETAIL but useful if that BAPI is not available .
                       Mul  Level BOM E trac on
 Best for: When you need full BOM explosion .
Go to SE37 1.
Test CS_BOM_EXPL_MAT_V2 2.
Use Python/ABAP to automate.3.
✅Pros: Gets multi -level BOMs .
❌Cons: More complex.
                   Generic Table E tract
 Best for: When no BAPIs are available , but table data is needed .
Example: Python Extraction
result = conn.call('RFC_READ_TABLE', QUERY_TABLE='STPO',
                   OPTIONS=[{'TEXT': "VALID_TO = '99991231'"}])
for row in result['DATA']:
    print(row)
✅Pros: Works for any table .
❌Cons: Performance limitations on large queries.
 SAP BW / CDS Views –Reporting Layer
 Best for: Scheduled reports via SAP BW/BI .
Ask your SAP team if CDS Views are available. 1.
Use OData API or BW Query . 2.
Extract via Power BI, Tableau, or GCP . 3.
✅Pros: Best for reporting dashboards .
❌Cons: Not real -time.
 Final Recommendation
Best for... Use This Method
Quick manual check SE16N
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 706    
One -time reports SQVI
Reusable reports SQ01
SQL Execution DBACOCKPIT
Real -time API Calls BAPI_BOM_GETDETAIL
Bulk Data Extracts RFC_READ_TABLE
 Want me to help set up an automation script or SQL query? Let’s get your SAP BOM reconciliation 
automated!
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 707    
Component Level Reconciliation
Wednesday, May 07, 2025 2:07 PM
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 708    
Absolutely, Greg —that makes total sense and you're approaching this exactly the right way.
Let me summarize and contextualize everything you've been working on, based on your actual goal :
 Your Goal (Restated Clearly)
To determine whether a 1:1 relationship exists between BOMs in SAP and those in BOM Portal (BOMP)
by identifying shared composite keys or fields , so that you can:
✅Confirm if data is accurate and complete •
✅Validate SAP data from GCP’s data hub •
✅Reconcile SAP and BOMP at scale (not just one -off) •
 Why You're Doing SAP →BOMP Mapping First
 ou’re not just mapping to backfill SAP_BOM_NUM .
 ou’re mapping to understand the structure and field relationships between the systems so you can:
Prove a 1:1 relationship exists (or not) 1.
Define a reliable composite key 2.
Ensure what’s in SAP’s source -of-truthmatches what’s in BOM Portal 3.
Identify what you’ll need to consume from the SAP data hub in GCP 4.
 What You've Discovered So Far
System Fields Used Purpose
SAP 
(MAST/STKO/STPO
)MATNR , WERKS , STLNR , STLAL , DATUV , 
VALID_TOSource of truth for BOMs and 
components
BOM Portal 
(RECIPE)MATERIAL_NUM , PLANT_CODE , RECIPE_ID , 
VALID_END_DATELocal view of BOM structure
SAP_BOM_NUM New field in RECIPE Needed to link directly to 
STLNR in SAP
 ou’ve also identified that:
Many BOMP records are missing SAP_BOM_NUM •
Composite keys like MATERIAL + PLANT + RECIPE + VALID_END_DATE are currently your 
best bet for m.mat•
✅Why This Mapping Is Critical Before GCP Ingestion
Once you start consuming SAP data from the GCP data hub , you need to know:
Which fields in SAP correspond to which in BOM Portal •
Whether SAP’s BOMs are mirrored in BOM Portal or diverged •
Whether you need to enrich or transform SAP data before use •Monday, March 24, 2025 8:44 AM
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 709    
Whether you need to enrich or transform SAP data before use •
If the composite key doesn’t match 1:1, then any data pipeline or dashboard built off GCP will have gaps 
or inaccuracies .
 Next Steps: Bridging to GCP
  Step 1: Complete  ield Mapping Matrix
Finish defining a 1:1 relationship table like this:
SAP Field (MAST/STKO) BOM Portal Field (RECIPE/BOMP) Notes
MATNR MATERIAL_NUM Needs zero -padding in SAP
WERKS PLANT_CODE Direct match
STLNR SAP_BOM_NUM Null currently, needs backfill
STLAL RECIPE_ID or version logic May need custom mapping
VALID_TO VALID_END_DATE Should match 9999 -12-31 for active
This becomes your schema reconciliation layer .
  Step 2: Test 1:1 Composite Key Matches
Run a match test between:
Portal: MATERIAL_NUM + PLANT_CODE + RECIPE_ID + VALID_END_DATE •
SAP: MATNR + WERKS + STLAL + VALID_TO•
This determines if data in GCP can be reliably joined or will need transformation.
  Step 3: De ne GCP Data Inges on Rules
Once match is confirmed:
 ou’ll pull STKO , STPO , MAST tables into GCP •
Use the mapped composite key to join into BOM Portal or create a reconciliation view •
Apply BigQuery or dbt to compare: 
Missing BOMs•
Mismatched components•
Inactive/expired versions••
 Final Takeaway (You Could Tell Your Boss):
“Before we can confidently consume BOMs from the SAP hub in GCP, we needed to validate whether 
the records in SAP have a 1:1 relationship with what we’ve captured in BOM Portal .
That’s why we mapped MATERIAL + PLANT + VERSION + DATE first —not just to backfill 
SAP_BOM_NUM, but to establish a trustable reconciliation model .
Once confirmed, we’ll configure ingestion pipelines in GCP and use BigQuery to monitor for drift, 
missing records, or sync failures.”
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 710    
Let me know if you'd like:
A visual of the field mapping matrix•
Help mocking up a reconciliation layer in BigQuery or Looker•
A 1-pager or slide deck version of this to present to management or architecture team•
 ou’re doing the groundwork that enables clean data lakes, reliable BI, and system trust across 
platforms  
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 711    
✅SAP Tables to Ingest into GCP
 1. MAST (Material to BOM Link)
Purpose : Links materials to their respective BOMs. •
Key Fields : •
MATNR–Material Number •
WERKS–Plant •
STLAN–BOM Usage •
STLAL–Alternative BOM •
STLNR–Bill of Material Number (foreign key to STKO ) •
 2. STKO (BOM Header)
Purpose : Stores BOM header data for each STLNR . •
Key Fields : •
STLNR–BOM Number •
WERKS–Plant •
STLTY–BOM Category (e.g., Mfor material BOMs) •
VALID_TO –Validity End Date •
 3. STPO (BOM Items)
Purpose : Contains the components (materials) that make up the BOM. •
Key Fields : •
STLNR–BOM Number (foreign key to STKO ) •
STLKN–BOM Item Counter •
IDNRK–Component Material Number •
 4. MARA (Material Master -Basic)
Purpose : Material -level metadata (used for validation). •
Key Fields : •
MATNR–Material Number •
MTART–Material Type •
MATKL–Material Group •
   (Plant Master Data)
Purpose : Details about plant locations. •
Key Fields : •
WERKS–Plant Code •
 Optional (if your BOM Portal uses these):
RECIPE (custom table) –if used in MySQL for recipe/BOM end dates •
Custom Z -tables–for additional flags, statuses, or relationships •
Change logs –if you want to track BOM changes over time •Tuesday, March 25, 2025 1:59 PM
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 712    
✅Target GCP Tables (Mapping to Hub Data Lake)
SAP Table GCP Target Table
MAST Hub.md_material_to_bom
STKO Hub.material or Hub.bom_header
STPO Hub.bom_components (if modeled separately)
MARA Hub.md_material
T001W Hub.md_plant
⏬Summary: Ingest These Tables from SAP to GCP
Table Type Reason
MAST Master Link materials to BOMs
STKO Master BOM header data (category, validity)
STPO Transactional BOM component items
MARA Master Material attributes
T001W Master Plant metadata
What to Ingest from RECIPE (MySQL Table)
 Table Purpose:
Stores validity information and possibly BOM configuration metadata that complements or mirrors 
SAP's STKO table.
 Minimum Required Fields to Ingest:
Field Description Maps To
MATERIAL_NUM Material Number MAST.MATNR , md_material.material_num
PLANT_CODE Plant Code MAST.WERKS , md_material_to_bom.plant_num
BOM_USAGE BOM Usage Type MAST.STLAN
ALTERNATIVE_
BOMAlternative BOM MAST.STLAL
BILL_OF_MATE
RIALBOM Number MAST.STLNR , STKO.STLNR , 
md_material_to_bom.bill_of_material
VALID_END_DA
TEEnd of Validity STKO.VALID_TO , 
Hub.material.metadata_hub_end_timestam
p
RECIPE_VERSI
ONVersion control / recipe 
variation (optional)Optional for change tracking
STATUS Optional flag (active/inactive, 
etc.)Helpful for filtering current BOMs
Let me know if:
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 713    
Let me know if:
You want help designing ingestion pipelines (e.g., via Cloud Dataflow, Informatica, or SAP Data Services).•
You're using SLT, BODS, CPI -DS, or other tools to move data from SAP to BigQuery. •
You want a checklist for ingestion validation or DAG design in GCP.•
Want a visual architecture diagram too?
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 714    
 Strategy for Real -Time or Active BOM Comparison via GCP & SAP
 1. From SAP: Build a Real -Time View via RFC or CDS
Using:
MAST→ to get active BOM numbers•
STKO→ filter by DATUV <= today , LOEKZ = '' •
STPO→ pull current components ( VALID_TO = 99991231 ) •
Expose via:
RFC (BAPI or custom FM) , or •
CDS View or OData Service from S/4HANA •
Filter to just current BOMs by:
sql
CopyEdit
STKO.DATUV <= CURRENT_DATE AND STPO.VALID_TO = '99991231'
 2. From BOM Portal: Generate Matching Dataset
Use this MySQL query:
sql
CopyEdit
SELECT 
    m.MATERIAL_NUM AS MATNR,
    p.PLANT_CODE AS WERKS,
    r.VALID_START_DATE AS DATUV,
    sc.STEP_COMPONENT_ID AS IDNRK,
    sc.YIELD_QTY AS MENGE
FROM 
    RECIPE r
JOIN 
    PLANT_MATERIAL_XREF pmx ON r.PLANT_MATERIAL_ID = pmx.PLANT_MATERIAL_ID
JOIN 
    MATERIAL m ON pmx.MATERIAL_ID = m.MATERIAL_ID
JOIN 
    PLANT p ON pmx.PLANT_ID = p.PLANT_ID
JOIN 
    STEP_COMPONENT sc ON sc.PLANT_MATERIAL_ID = r.PLANT_MATERIAL_ID
WHERE 
    r.VALID_END_DATE IS NULL;
 3. Match SAP ↔BOM Portal in GCP or Python
Either in:
BigQuery (preferred for scale) •
Python (good for scriptable comparison) •
Dataform / dbt if you’re using a modeling layer in GCP •
Compare:
(MATNR, WERKS, DATUV, IDNRK, MENGE) between systems •
This gives you row-level mismatches or gaps in BOMs.
 Why This Works
Even if you don’t store STLNR , SAP maintains 1:1 BOM mapping via:
MAST.MATNR + WERKS•
Each MATNR + WERKS has a default BOM ( STLAL = 1 ) •
STKO/STPO maintain validity dates ( DATUV , VALID_TO ) which you can mirror with your 
VALID_START_DATE•
So even without SAP_BOM_NUM , you’re essentially re -deriving the current BOM snapshot dynamically.
✅Final Answer to Andre’s Question:
“Is there any other way besides storing SAP_BOM_NUM to reconcile?”
Yes —by leveraging:
Material Number•
Plant•
Valid From Date (or the latest active version) •
Component ID•
Quantity•
You can dynamically rebuild 1:1 relationships for active BOMs, especially if your MySQL or GCP dataset 
includes effective dates like VALID_START_DATE .
 Optional: If You Want to Backfill SAP_BOM_NUM
You could create a daily sync job to:
Pull active BOMs from SAP ( MAST , STKO ) 1.
Match by material + plant + valid date2.
Write matched SAP_BOM_NUM back to your RECIPE table for traceability 3.✅Option 3: SAP Query via SQ01 (Advanced Reporting)
If you want this to be reusable and schedulable, convert your SQVI query into SQ01 . You can then:
Schedule it with SM36 / SM37 •
Output to spool or download•
Email the results via background job•
❌No SAP_BOM_NUM Can’t directly join with STPO.STLNR
❌No SAP DB access (SE16N/SQVI/SE37) Can't extract data with a SQL -style query
✅Access to BOM Portal DB Can see active materials, components, and structure
✅You can get exports from SAP Likely via functional team or CS03 screenshots/export
✅You have valid start/end dates in your RECIPE tableCan simulate “current” BOMsFriday, March 21, 2025 2:06 PM
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 715    
This makes historical tracking and rollback possible in the future.
Let me know if you want:
A Python script to do this comparison from SAP to GCP •
A BigQuery transformation to automate this match •
Help exploring the CDS/BAPI route for live SAP data into GCP•
You're very close —just need to wire up the dynamic match logic  
4o
O
Search
Deep research
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 716    
Ensure that our internal BOM Portal is aligned with SAP for all active Bills of Material (BOMs), 
specifically at the component level , despite not having direct SAP BOM number references 
(SAP_BOM_NUM ).
 Current Challenges
Challenge Impact
SAP_BOM_NUM is not populated in BOM Portal Can’t directly join with STPO.STLNR
No historical version tracking Hinders auditability of prior BOM states
Limited programmatic access to SAP Requires alternative methods to retrieve BOM data
Risk of data divergence Business impact if components are misaligned
✅Recommended Multi -Path Solution
 1. Composite Key Reconciliation (Short -Term, Low Dev Lift)
Use keys like: Material Number + Plant + Valid From Date to simulate a 1:1 match.
How:
In SAP (via SE16N or CSAP_MAT_BOM_READ ): 
Export active BOMs: MATNR , WERKS , IDNRK , MENGE , VALID_TO = 99991231 ••
In BOM Portal: 
Use MATERIAL_NUM , PLANT_ID , STEP_COMPONENT_ID , YIELD_QTY , 
VALID_START_DATE••
Compare the two via: 
Excel for ad hoc checks•
Python or BigQuery for scalable comparisons••
✅Provides current BOM visibility
❌No historical change tracking
 Requires scheduled exports or batch comparison
 2. SAP BOM Backfill Project (Mid -Term)
Backfill SAP_BOM_NUM in the RECIPE table via one -time or recurring data load.
How:
Use MAST (SAP) to match MATNR + WERKS to PLANT_MATERIAL_ID •
Populate matching STLNR into SAP_BOM_NUM •
Update RECIPE table and rekey joins with STPO •
✅Enables future 1:1 joins to SAP
❌Still won't cover historical data unless archived
 Requires SAP dev involvement (moderate effort)Friday, March 21, 2025 2:18 PM
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 717    
 3. SAP BOM Gateway Integration (Long -Term, Scalable)
Expose real -time SAP BOM data via:
CDS View / OData service (S/4HANA) •
RFC wrapper (e.g., CSAP_MAT_BOM_READ ) •
How:
Connect via GCP Cloud Function or App Engine•
Fetch BOM data by material/plant daily or on -demand •
Store in BigQuery or mirror table for reconciliation•
✅Real -time validation
✅Eliminates data exports
❌Requires coordination with SAP Basis/ABAP teams
 4. Leverage RECON Tables Already in Portal (If Available)
Check for:
RECON_RECIPE , RECON_MATERIAL , RECON_REFRESH •
These may already store mismatches or JSON blobs from syncs•
✅Immediate value if data is populated
❌May require reverse engineering structure
 Easy to build comparison views
 5. Manual Spot Checks for Urgent Needs
When needed, use:
SAP SE37→ CSAP_MAT_BOM_READ (for real -time view of one material) •
SAP CS03 / SE16N→ to manually verify structure •
✅No dev work
❌Not scalable
  Summary Table
Option Scope Effort Timeline Owner
Composite Key Reconciliation Current BOMs Low Immediate Analyst
SAP BOM Backfill All BOMs (future) Medium 2–4 weeks SAP Dev
Live SAP Integration Real -time accuracy High 4–8 weeks SAP + IT
Use RECON Tables Internal snapshot Low Immediate Internal Analyst
Manual Verification Spot checks Low Ad hoc Analyst
 Recommendation
Phase 1:
Implement composite key reconciliation via Python or BigQuery (quick win) •
Investigate and document RECON_ tables * •
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 718    
Investigate and document RECON_ tables * •
Phase 2:
Scope and kick off SAP BOM backfill project•
Define target schema for SAP_BOM_NUM and version history •
Phase 3:
Coordinate with SAP/Basis to expose BOM API •
Set up GCP -based sync job for live validation and alerting •
Let me know if you'd like me to:
Draft this into a slide deck or memo•
Build a sample script or dashboard to prove the concept•
You've got a solid foundation —this is a manageable path to full reconciliation and future scalability.  
✅
4o
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 719    
Perfect —thanks for clarifying! If your team wants to reconcile BOM data using a composite key made 
up of :
Material + Plant + Recipe + Valid End Date
… then here’s how you should proceed. This method allows you to uniquely identify a BOM version
across BOM Portal and SAP —even without relying on SAP_BOM_NUM .
✅Updated Reconciliation Strategy (Composite Key: Material + Plant + Recipe + 
Valid End Date)
 Why This Key Works
This combination:
Material = BOM parent •
Plant= Where it’s used •
Recipe = BOM structure or variant (e.g., version of steps) •
Valid End Date = Version window •
Together, these act as a natural key for BOMs in both systems.
 Step -by-Step Plan for 1:1 Reconciliation
 1. From BOM Portal: Extract Composite Key
SELECT 
    m.MATERIAL_NUM,
    p.PLANT_CODE,
    r.RECIPE_ID,
    COALESCE(r.VALID_END_DATE, '9999 -12-31') AS VALID_END_DATE
FROM 
    RECIPE r
JOIN PLANT_MATERIAL_XREF pmx ON r.PLANT_MATERIAL_ID = pmx.PLANT_MATERIAL_ID
JOIN MATERIAL m ON pmx.MATERIAL_ID = m.MATERIAL_ID
JOIN PLANT p ON pmx.PLANT_ID = p.PLANT_ID
WHERE 
    r.VALID_END_DATE IS NULL OR r.VALID_END_DATE >= CURRENT_DATE;
 Output = your active BOMs in the Portal using the agreed composite key.
 2. From SAP: Extract Matching Composite Fields
If RECIPE_ID isn’t in SAP, use SAP’s own internal version fields like:
MATNR (Material) •
WERKS (Plant) •
STLNR/STKO.STLAL (Alternative BOM or version number) •
STKO.AEDAT or VALID_TO (to simulate VALID_END_DATE ) •
Use this logic in SE16N or SQVI :Friday, March 21, 2025 3:25 PM
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 720    
Use this logic in SE16N or SQVI :
SELECT 
    MAST.MATNR, 
    MAST.WERKS, 
    STKO.STLNR,
    STKO.STLAL,
    STKO.VALID_TO
FROM 
    MAST
JOIN 
    STKO ON MAST.STLNR = STKO.STLNR
WHERE 
    STKO.VALID_TO = '99991231'  --active
 3. Compare Composite Keys
In Excel or Python: 
Combine keys from both sets: 
Portal : MATERIAL_NUM + PLANT_CODE + RECIPE_ID + VALID_END_DATE •
SAP: MATNR + WERKS + STLAL + VALID_TO••
Match them using a join or lookup•
Flag missing/mismatched entries••
 Bonus: Reconcile Step Components per Key
To drill deeper, join in the component level:
BOM Portal : STEP_COMPONENT by RECIPE_ID •
SAP: STPO by STLNR •
So now you’re comparing:
MATERIAL + PLANT + RECIPE + VALID_END_DATE + COMPONENT
That gives full 1:1 BOM + component -level reconciliation , even without BOM_NUM.
 Summary of What to Do Next
Task Tool Owner
Export BOM composite keys from Portal SQL You / Data Analyst
Export BOM composite keys from SAP SE16N or SQVI SAP Functional Team
Join & compare composite keys Excel or Python You
Flag missing or mismatched keys Power BI / Spreadsheet Optional
Begin drafting RFC to backfill SAP_BOM_NUM (if 
needed)IT Lead + SAP Optional
Let me know if you want:
A Python script to reconcile these 4 fields•
A Power BI layout that shows mismatches•
A templated slide or doc to present this plan to your manager or SAP team•
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 721    
A templated slide or doc to present this plan to your manager or SAP team•
 ou’ve officially locked in a smart and defensible composite key   
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 722    
---
**Strategic Decision: Population of SAP_BOM_NUM**
---
**Introduction**
The population of SAP_BOM_NUM is a strategic decision that unlocks long -term flexibility, accuracy, and 
integration. Below is a clear and professional breakdown to discuss with your manager or SAP/business 
stakeholders.
---
**Why We Should Populate SAP_BOM_NUM**
**What is SAP_BOM_NUM?**
SAP_BOM_NUM is a reference field in the BOM Portal that stores SAP’s BOM number (STLNR), uniquely 
identifying a BOM in SAP.
---
**Top 5 Reasons to Populate SAP_BOM_NUM**
1. **Enables Direct 1:1 Link Between BOM Portal and SAP**
   -Currently, we use composite keys (Material + Plant + Recipe + Dates).
   -Populating SAP_BOM_NUM allows a direct join to SAP’s STPO, STKO, MAST tables.
   -This eliminates ambiguity and ensures precision.
2. **Enables Component -Level Reconciliation**
   -With SAP_BOM_NUM, you can:
     -Pull all components from SAP via STPO.
     -Compare directly to Portal’s STEP_COMPONENT.
   -No need to guess or simulate versions —you’re looking at the exact BOM structure from SAP.Friday, March 21, 2025 1:29 PM
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 723    
3. **Improves Reporting & Auditing**
   -Allows stakeholders to trace a BOM in both systems using a shared ID.
   -Critical for costing, manufacturing, regulatory, and version control reviews.
   -Makes reconciliation and audit trail building 100x easier.
4. **Unlocks Integration with SAP APIs**
   -APIs like CSAP_MAT_BOM_READ, CS_BOM_EXPL_MAT_V2 require STLNR (BOM num).
   -Without it, automation and synchronization pipelines hit a wall.
5. **Reduces Risk of Mismatched Data**
   -Prevents situations where Material + Plant + Recipe align, but component structure differs due to SAP 
versioning.
   -SAP_BOM_NUM anchors your data to the real source of truth.
---
**What It Will Take to Populate SAP_BOM_NUM**
| Task                  | Description                                             | Owner                |
|----------------------- |--------------------------------------------------------- |---------------------- |
| Identify Matching Logic | Use MATERIAL_NUM + PLANT_CODE to find matching STLNR from MAST | 
You + SAP Functional |
| Backfill Script       | Update RECIPE.SAP_BOM_NUM with matched STLNR            | DBA / Data 
Engineering |
| Historical Versions   | Optionally store in a history table if recipes map to multiple BOMs | Optional             
|
| Ongoing Sync          | Auto -populate SAP_BOM_NUM when new BOMs are created or updated | Dev / 
Integration    |
| Governance            | Add data validation rules to ensure only valid STLNR values are stored | App Team 
/ QA        |
---
**Example Mapping Query (One -Time Backfill)**
```sql
--Pseudocode: match based on material and plant
UPDATE RECIPE r
JOIN PLANT_MATERIAL_XREF pmx ON r.PLANT_MATERIAL_ID = pmx.PLANT_MATERIAL_ID
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 724    
JOIN MAST sap ON sap.MATNR = pmx.MATERIAL_ID AND sap.WERKS = pmx.PLANT_ID
SET r.SAP_BOM_NUM = sap.STLNR
WHERE r.SAP_BOM_NUM IS NULL;
```
This will require aligning MATERIAL_NUM formatting (e.g., leading zeros) and ensuring data integrity.
---
**Strategic Benefit Summary**
| Benefit                | Impact                          |
|------------------------ |--------------------------------- |
| Accurate SAP –Portal joins | Enables full 1:1 reconciliation |
| Clean reporting        | Reduces manual reconciliation logic |
| Enables APIs           | Simplifies integration with SAP functions |
| Reduces human error    | No more guessing BOM structure by composite |
| Future -proof           | Makes audit, costing, and spec compliance seamless |
---
**Final Recommendation**
Populate SAP_BOM_NUM now, via a one -time backfill and implement logic to keep it updated going 
forward. This small data quality initiative will unlock massive value for reconciliation, automation, and 
analytics —and de -risk future system upgrades or integrations.
---
**Next Steps**
Let me know if you'd like:
-A SQL script to test the mapping.
-A slide version of this summary.
-Help writing the functional spec for your team.
You're thinking like a systems owner now —this is what bridges silos and powers enterprise reliability.
---
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 725    
---
**End of Document**
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 726    
What we see in BOM Portal 
ECM ISSUE ON CREATE DATE FOR BOM 00052006
If an ECM comes into a valid status in BOM Portal
ECM is RARE on Finance spectrum
There are cases where BOM has problems with how they've
Been accounting
How do I corelate Bill of Material to Recipe_ID in BOMMySQL
For us to enforce actual columns between BOM Portal and SAP
Use ze16 to get to tables
Bill of Material contains the formulation 
In sap if we check for recipes
C203
Those are constrained to BOM
Currently there are a few fields in BOM Portal MySQL that directly correlate to STPO and STKOSTKO STPO BOM_MySQL.Recipe GCP
Bill of Material BOM
Alternative Bom Alternative Bom
Counter
Valid From Valid From
Created on Created On
Valid To Valid To
STKO Data
Wednesday, March 12, 2025 4:02 PM
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 727    
Bill of material data is pinpointed for efficient user navigation. •
Tables and views are well registered and effectively contained within functional specification that are 
relevant for the reconciliation reporting between SAP and BOM Portal•
BOM Portal data is identified and well established to consume from the corresponding source•
Business Statement/Value
None
Technical Details
Inspect projects in the GCP Access portal such that data related to BOMs and BOM Portal exist within 
each of them.•
Identify data components and data structures which share information corresponding to BOMs and 
BOM Portal. •
For previous' point scrutiny, all data must be relevant for the reconciliation process between BOM 
Portal and SAP•
Current
As an BOM Portal Techno -functional Analyst and Product Owner I have pinpointed Bill of material data 
in GCP: The following tables are contained within GCP and are relevant for the reconciliation process 
between BOM Portal and SAP: Currently GCP does not ingest data from SAP about BOMs/AltBOMs, etc. 
Ideally we could use the material num trade version and STKO and STPO data
The following are present in the BOM_MySQL but are empty? SAP_VERSION_NUM
SAP_RECIPE_NUM
SAP_BOM_NUM
Md_material
Material_num
Material_descr
Material_type_code
Material_created_on_date
Material_last_change_date
Md_material_to_bom
Material_Num Long Material Number
Plant_Num Plant code 
Bom_usage
Bill_of_material
Alternative_bom
Md_bom_usage 
Bom_usage_code Identifies where bom is used 
Bom_usage_descr Costing(6), production(1), etc. 
Bom_usage
Txn_bom_cost_estimate –Contains header information
Costing_Date
Material_num
Header_material_num
Header_plant_num
Material_long_num
SAP DATA
STKO Table Fields of Interest
BOM Bill of material number
Alt bom 
Valid From
Created on
UoM
Created in Plant
STPO Table Fields of Interest
BOM Bill of material Number
Valid From
Created On
Component
Valid towe noticed we are missing tables to deterministically refer materials to BOMs/Recipes as it currently 
only has (at prod -2134 -entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bompdb_prod_bom_mysql_restricted_confidential) 
BOM Portal specific recipe tables (e.g.: recipe_change_hist) which cannot be correlated to any 
material/BOM reference to SAP until we have other tables ingested. 
THE MAST table within SAP might be more suitable for what we are wanting to do 
It list Material, Plant, Usage, BOM and Alt BOM 
Material to BOM Link
Is there anyway to join these tables GCP Research
Friday, March 14, 2025 9:17 AM
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 728    
BOM_MySQL
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 729    
Description:
Currently, BOM_MYSQL is missing data in the following fields:
SAP_RECIPE_NUM•
SAP_BOM_NUM•
This task involves reconciling BOM_MYSQL with SAP by:
Identifying missing data by comparing BOM_MYSQL with following SAP tables 
STKO -(BOM Header) Table in SAP a.
STPO -(BOM item) Table in SAP b.
MARA -(General Material Data) Table in SAP c.
MAST -(Material to BOM Link) Table d.1.
Updating BOM_MYSQL to ensure that all SAP BOM details are reflected. 2.
Verifying a 1:1 mapping exists between BOM_MYSQL and SAP. 3.
Automating reconciliation queries where feasible. 4.
Acceptance Criteria:
BOM_MYSQL has all SAP BOM numbers ( SAP_BOM_NUM ) linked correctly. •
SAP_RECIPE_NUM and SAP_VERSION_NUM fields are populated for all relevant BOMs. •
No duplicate entries exist for SAP_BOM_NUM in BOM_MYSQL . •
SQL validation queries show full reconciliation.•
Query for Missing Data Identification:
sql
CopyEdit
SELECT 
    stko.STLNR AS Missing_BOM,
    stko.STLAL AS Missing_Recipe,
    stas.BOM_VERSN AS Missing_Version
FROM STKO stko
LEFT JOIN STAS stas ON stko.STLNR = stas.STLNR
LEFT JOIN BOM_MYSQL bm ON stko.STLNR = bm.SAP_BOM_NUM
WHERE bm.SAP_BOM_NUM IS NULL;
Query for Data Insertion:
sql
CopyEdit
INSERT INTO BOM_MYSQL (SAP_BOM_NUM, SAP_RECIPE_NUM, SAP_VERSION_NUM)
SELECT 
    stko.STLNR, 
    stko.STLAL, 
    stas.BOM_VERSN
FROM STKO stko
LEFT JOIN STAS stas ON stko.STLNR = stas.STLNR
LEFT JOIN BOM_MYSQL bm ON stko.STLNR = bm.SAP_BOM_NUM
WHERE bm.SAP_BOM_NUM IS NULL;
Query for Data Integrity Check:
sql
CopyEdit
SELECT SAP_BOM_NUM, COUNT(*) 
FROM BOM_MYSQL 
GROUP BY SAP_BOM_NUM 
HAVING COUNT(*) > 1;
Priority: High
Labels: BOM_Reconciliation , Data_Integrity , SAP_Integration
Reporter: [Your Name]
Assignee: [Developer/DBA Name]
Sprint: [Current Sprint Name]
Story Points: 5I've drafted the ingestion request for moving Plant , Material , and PlantMaterialXref from 
BOM_MYSQL to GCP. Let me know if any details need refining before submission!  
JIRA Card: BOM_MYSQL Data Ingestion to GCP
Summary:
As an IT Product Owner I will The ingestion team needs to ingest Plant , Material , and PlantMaterialXref
data from BOM_MYSQL into GCP to support data integration and analysis.
Objective:
Ensure that the required tables from BOM_MYSQL are ingested into GCP for  processing, reporting, and 
analytics.
Scope:
Extract data from BOM_MYSQL 
Plant•
Material•
PlantMaterialXref•1.
Load into GCP (BigQuery or relevant storage solution) 2.
Validate ingestion to ensure completeness and accuracy 3.
Technical Details:
Source Tables in BOM_MYSQL:
Plant Table: Contains plant -related information. •
Material Table: Stores material master data. •
PlantMaterialXref Table: Links plant and material data. •
Destination in GCP:
GCP BigQuery Dataset: (WHERE WILL THIS DATA GO?) •
Target Tables: 
bom_plant•
bom_material•
bom_plant_material_xref••
:Validation Checks:
Row Count Validation: Ensure counts match between BOM_MYSQL and GCP. •
Schema Validation: Column types must match between source and destination. •
Data Completeness: Check for missing or null values. •
Acceptance Criteria:
All three tables ( Plant , Material , PlantMaterialXref ) are successfully ingested into GCP. •
No data loss or transformation errors.•
Data validation checks pass.•
Process is documented for repeatability.•Title
Description
Acceptance Criteria
Business Statement/Value
Technical DetailsCard for SAP to BOM Recon
Wednesday, March 19, 2025 2:57 PM
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 730    
✅How We’ll Accomplish SAP & BOM_MySQL Ingestion and 1:1 Reconciliation 
in GCP
 1. What Needs to Be Ingested
 From SAP →GCP
These are the required tables for BOM structure:
SAP Table Purpose Key Fields
MAST Links material to BOM MATNR , WERKS , STLAN , STLAL , STLNR
STKO BOM header details STLNR , WERKS , STLTY , VALID_TO
STPO BOM components STLNR , STLKN , IDNRK , MENGE
MARA Material master data MATNR , MTART , etc.
T001W Plant master WERKS , NAME1 , etc.
STAS (Optional) BOM version info STLNR , BOM_VERSN
✅These should be ingested into BigQuery (e.g. hub.sap_mast , hub.sap_stko , etc.).
 From BOM_MySQL →GCP
These are needed for BOM Portal context:
BOM_MySQL Table Purpose
RECIPE Recipe metadata & validity
MATERIAL Material master for BOMP
PLANT Plant metadata
PLANT_MATERIAL_XREF Join between plant and material
RECIPE_AUDIT / COMPONENT_EDIT_AUDIT Optional: trace changes
FORMULATION / FORMULATION_COMPONENT Optional: for recipe structure detail
✅Ingest these into BigQuery as:
bom.recipe•
bom.material•
bom.plant•
bom.plant_material_xref•
 2. How We’ll Establish a 1:1 Relationship
 Define Composite Keys
SAP (STKO + MAST) BOM_MySQL (RECIPE)Tuesday, March 25, 2025 2:17 PM
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 731    
MATNR MATERIAL_NUM
WERKS PLANT_CODE
STLAL SAP_VERSION_NUM (or similar)
STLNR SAP_BOM_NUM
VALID_TO VALID_END_DATE
You’ll test:
(MATNR + WERKS + STLAL + VALID_TO) = (MATERIAL_NUM + PLANT_CODE + 
SAP_VERSION_NUM + VALID_END_DATE)
✅If this holds true across data sets, you have a reliable 1:1 mapping for reconciliation.
 3. How to Query the Data in BigQuery for Reconciliation
Once ingested, run a reconciliation query like:
SELECT
  sap.MATNR AS sap_material,
  sap.WERKS AS sap_plant,
  sap.STLAL AS sap_version,
  stko.VALID_TO AS sap_valid_to,
  stko.STLNR AS sap_bom_num,
  recipe.MATERIAL_NUM AS bom_material,
  recipe.PLANT_CODE AS bom_plant,
  recipe.SAP_VERSION_NUM AS bom_version,
  recipe.VALID_END_DATE AS bom_valid_to,
  recipe.SAP_BOM_NUM AS bom_bom_num,
  CASE
    WHEN stko.STLNR = recipe.SAP_BOM_NUM THEN 'Match'
    ELSE 'Mismatch'
  END AS bom_match_status
FROM
  `hub.sap_mast` sap
JOIN
  `hub.sap_stko` stko
  ON sap.STLNR = stko.STLNR AND sap.WERKS = stko.WERKS
LEFT JOIN
  `bom.recipe` recipe
  ON sap.MATNR = recipe.MATERIAL_NUM
  AND sap.WERKS = recipe.PLANT_CODE
  AND sap.STLAL = recipe.SAP_VERSION_NUM
  AND stko.VALID_TO = recipe.VALID_END_DATE
✅4. Automate GCP Reconciliation
You can:
Use dbt models or scheduled BigQuery queries to: •
Identify missing records•
Backfill SAP_BOM_NUM in BOM_MySQL •
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 732    
Backfill SAP_BOM_NUM in BOM_MySQL •
Validate no duplicates•
Build dashboards in Looker/Looker Studio to monitor: •
Match % between SAP and BOM Portal•
New unmatched BOMs•
Inactive or expired records•
 Acceptance Criteria (As Per Document)
Goal Done When
All SAP BOMs are linked in RECIPESAP_BOM_NUM populated
All recipes have SAP metadata SAP_RECIPE_NUM + SAP_VERSION_NUM filled
No duplicate BOMs SAP_BOM_NUM is unique
1:1 relationship proven Composite key test passes
Queryable in GCP All source data is ingested, validated
 Next Actions
Action Owner Status
Finalize composite key mapping You ✅
Ingest SAP tables to BigQuery Ingestion team  
Ingest BOM_MySQL tables Ingestion team  
Validate 1:1 mapping via BQ query You/Analyst ⏳
Build dashboards or alerts Optional ⏳
Would you like a visual mapping diagram , a 1-pager to present , or dbt-style SQL model for 
reconciliation?
You're already very close —this will make your data lake solid, and your BOM Portal fully SAP -aligned.
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 733    
Title
BOM_MYSQL Data Ingestion to GCP
Description
As a BOM Portal Product Owner I will work with the analytics team to ingest Plant, Material, and 
PlantMaterialXref data from BOM_MYSQL into GCP to support data integration and analysis.
Acceptance Criteria
All three tables (Plant, Material, PlantMaterialXref) are successfully ingested into GCP.•
No data loss or transformation errors.•
Data validation checks pass.•
Process is documented for repeatability.•
Business Statement/Value
Ensuring that data from BOM_MYSQL is ingested into GCP will support enhanced data processing, 
reporting, and analytics. This transition improves accessibility, integration, and validation processes, 
allowing for better decision -making and operational efficiency. This will contribute to our reconciliation 
processes in the future as we will not be pulling data directly from BOM_MYSQL
Technical Details
Source Tables in BOM_MYSQL:
Plant Table: Contains plant -related information. •
Material Table: Stores material  data. •
PlantMaterialXref Table: Links plant and material data. •
Destination in GCP:
GCP BigQuery Dataset: (Specify the exact dataset where this data will be stored -  TBD) •
Target Tables: 
bom_plant•
bom_material•
bom_plant_material_xref••
Validation Checks:
Row Count Validation: Ensure counts match between BOM_MYSQL and GCP. •
Schema Validation: Column types must match between source and destination. •
Data Completeness: Check for missing or null values. •Jira Card for Ingestion
Wednesday, March 19, 2025 3:23 PM
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 734    
MARA –356125 Entries
Fields of interest:
Material MATNR
Created on ERSDA
Valid From DATAB
Valid To LIQDT
Material Description
MARC -
Field of Interest
Material MATNR
plant WERKS
Valid From MMSTD
STKO –169946 Entries
Fields of Interest
Bill of Material STLNR
Alternative BOM STLAL
Valid From DATUV
Created On ANDAT
Changed On AEDAT
BOM Status STLST
Created in Plant WRKAN
Valid to VALID_TO
STPO –821467 Entries
Bill of Material STLNR
Valid From DATUV
Created on ANDAT
Changed On AEDAT
Valid to VALID_TO
VALID TO VALID_TO_RKEYMAST –50215 Entries
Material MATNR
Plant WERKS
BOM Usage STLAN
Bill of Material STLNR
Alternative BOM STLAL
Created On ANDAT
Changed on AEDATTo reconcile data from your BOM Portal to SAP, the specific table(s) you need depend on what aspect of 
the BOM (Bill of Materials) you are reconciling. Here are key SAP tables that may be relevant:
1. Master BOM Data
STKO (Bill of Material Header Table) –Contains high -level BOM details like validity dates and 
usage.•
STPO (Bill of Material Items Table) –Stores BOM components and their relationships. •
MAST (Material to BOM Link Table) –Links BOMs to material masters. •
Recommended Approach
Identify the Key Data Elements –Are you material assignments, costs, or changes? 1.
Query STKO, STPO, and MAST –These are the primary BOM tables for structure reconciliation. 2.
Check Custom Tables (Z -Tables)–If the BOM Portal uses custom logic, reconcile with 
ZTFIT_PARM or similar.3.
Compare Versions –Use CCHDR and CC02 to track changes and ensure consistency. 4.
BOM_MYSQL
Currently BOM_MySQL is missing data in the following tables
SAP_VERSION_NUMa.
SAP_RECIPE_NUM
SAP_BOM_NUM1.
Is there a way we can show a 1:1 relationship between BOM_MYSQL and what's in SAP 2.STAS –
Bill of material STLNR
Alt BOM STLAL
Valid From DATUV
Created On ANDAT
Changed On AEDAT
BOM Version BOM_VERSNSELECT 
    --Material Master Data
    MARA.MATNR AS Material,
    MARA.ERSDA AS Created_On,
    MARA.DATAB AS Valid_From,
    MARA.LIQDT AS Valid_To,
    --BOM Header Data
    STKO.STLNR AS BOM_Number,
    STKO.STLAL AS Alternative_BOM,
    STKO.DATUV AS BOM_Valid_From,
    STKO.ANDAT AS BOM_Created_On,
    STKO.AEDAT AS BOM_Changed_On,
    STKO.STLST AS BOM_Status,
    STKO.WRKAN AS BOM_Created_In_Plant,
    STKO.VALID_TO AS BOM_Valid_To,
    --BOM Item Data
    STPO.DATUV AS BOM_Item_Valid_From,
    STPO.ANDAT AS BOM_Item_Created_On,
    STPO.AEDAT AS BOM_Item_Changed_On,
    STPO.VALID_TO AS BOM_Item_Valid_To,
    --Material to BOM Link
    MAST.STLAN AS BOM_Usage,
    MAST.STLNR AS MAST_BOM_Number,
    MAST.STLAL AS MAST_Alt_BOM,
    MAST.ANDAT AS MAST_Created_On,
    MAST.AEDAT AS MAST_Changed_On,
    --BOM Status Data
    STAS.STLNR AS STAS_BOM_Number,
    STAS.STLAL AS STAS_Alt_BOM,
    STAS.DATUV AS STAS_Valid_From,
    STAS.ANDAT AS STAS_Created_On,
    STAS.AEDAT AS STAS_Changed_On,
    STAS.BOM_VERSN AS BOM_Version
FROM MARA
LEFT JOIN MARC ON MARA.MATNR = MARC.MATNR
LEFT JOIN STKO ON MARA.MATNR = STKO.STLNR
LEFT JOIN STPO ON STKO.STLNR = STPO.STLNR
LEFT JOIN MAST ON MARA.MATNR = MAST.MATNR
LEFT JOIN STAS ON STKO.STLNR = STAS.STLNRSAP_VERSION_NUM
SAP_RECIPE_NUM
SAP_BOM_NUM
These tables are missing data in BOM_MYSQL
To establish a 1:1 relationship between BOM_MYSQL and SAP data, follow these steps:
1. Identify the Matching Keys
To reconcile BOM_MYSQL with SAP tables, determine the unique identifiers that exist in both systems.
SAP Tables and Keys : 
STKO.STLNR (BOM Number) = SAP_BOM_NUM •
STKO.STLAL (Alternative BOM) = SAP_RECIPE_NUM •
MARA.MATNR (Material Number) = Material in BOM_MYSQL •
STAS.BOM_VERSN (BOM Version) = SAP_VERSION_NUM ••
If BOM_MYSQL lacks these values , they need to be mapped or populated using SAP data.
2. Build a Query to Reconcile BOM_MYSQL with SAP
We need to compare SAP_BOM_NUM, SAP_VERSION_NUM, SAP_RECIPE_NUM in BOM_MYSQL with 
the corresponding SAP fields .
SELECT 
    bm.SAP_BOM_NUM AS BOM_MYSQL_BOM,
    bm.SAP_RECIPE_NUM AS BOM_MYSQL_Recipe,
    bm.SAP_VERSION_NUM AS BOM_MYSQL_Version,
    
    --SAP Data
    stko.STLNR AS SAP_BOM_NUM,
    stko.STLAL AS SAP_RECIPE_NUM,
    stas.BOM_VERSN AS SAP_VERSION_NUM
    
FROM BOM_MYSQL bm
LEFT JOIN STKO stko ON bm.SAP_BOM_NUM = stko.STLNR
LEFT JOIN STAS stas ON stko.STLNR = stas.STLNR AND bm.SAP_VERSION_NUM = 
stas.BOM_VERSN
3. Identify Missing Data
If SAP_BOM_NUM , SAP_VERSION_NUM , or SAP_RECIPE_NUM are NULL in BOM_MYSQL but exist 
in SAP, they need to be inserted into BOM_MYSQL.•
Use this query to identify missing records : •
SELECT 
    stko.STLNR AS Missing_BOM,
    stko.STLAL AS Missing_Recipe,
    stas.BOM_VERSN AS Missing_Version
FROM STKO stko
LEFT JOIN STAS stas ON stko.STLNR = stas.STLNR
LEFT JOIN BOM_MYSQL bm ON stko.STLNR = bm.SAP_BOM_NUM
WHERE bm.SAP_BOM_NUM IS NULL;
4. Populate Missing Data in BOM_MYSQL
If there are missing entries in BOM_MYSQL, populate them:
INSERT INTO BOM_MYSQL (SAP_BOM_NUM, SAP_RECIPE_NUM, SAP_VERSION_NUM)
SELECT 
    stko.STLNR, 
    stko.STLAL, 
    stas.BOM_VERSN
FROM STKO stko
LEFT JOIN STAS stas ON stko.STLNR = stas.STLNR
LEFT JOIN BOM_MYSQL bm ON stko.STLNR = bm.SAP_BOM_NUM
WHERE bm.SAP_BOM_NUM IS NULL;
5. Verify 1:1 Relationship
Ensure no duplicates exist in BOM_MYSQL for each SAP_BOM_NUM . •
Run:•
SELECT SAP_BOM_NUM, COUNT(*) 
FROM BOM_MYSQL 
GROUP BY SAP_BOM_NUM SAP to BOM P Tables
Wednesday, March 19, 2025 11:21 AM
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 735    
GROUP BY SAP_BOM_NUM 
HAVING COUNT(*) > 1;
If duplicates exist, review and clean up the data.
Final Outcome
This process will synchronize BOM_MYSQL with SAP . •
Missing data will be identified and inserted . •
A 1:1 relationship between BOM_MYSQL and SAP will be established. •
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 736    
SAP BOM P Create date in STPO created date and validity date are not representative of the bom 
publishing date 
Validity date to changes on bom items upon submission 
Does the validity date on the bom correspond to the submission timestamp or to the BOM from BOM 
Portal
Ideally the changed on date should be populated already
STPO Table we need to check the BOM components 
What happens if we change the billing composition of 2 components but others are left the same
Check on monday Thursday, March 20, 2025 12:48 PM
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 737    
MAST Material to BOM LinkGCP Research
Monday, March 17, 2025 4:10 PM
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 738    
BOM_MYSQL.Recipe
RECIPE_ID
PLANT_MATERIAL_ID
SAP_VERSION_NUM
SAP_RECIPE_NUM
SAP_BOM_NUM
STATUS_DATE
RESOURCE_NETWORK_NUM
CREATE_DATE
RECIPE_STATUS_ID
ORIGINATOR_ID
OWNER_ID
RECIPE_DESCR
ESP_PARENT_RECIPE_ID
SPEC_MATERIAL_ID
COST_TEST_IND
PRODUCTION_SEND_DATE
STANDARDS_OVERRIDE_DATE
STANDARDS_OVERRIDE_USERID
MOD_USERID
MOD_DATE
ALT_PACK_METHOD_IND
ALT_PACK_METHOD_RECIPE_NUM
PLANT_RESOURCE_NETWORK_ID
THROUGHPUT_QTY
LB_DAY_QTY
CREW_QTY
OVERRIDE_PLANT_RESOURCE_NETWORK_ID
OVERRIDE_THROUGHPUT_QTY
OVERRIDE_LB_DAY_QTY
OVERRIDE_CREW_QTYIdeally we should have the BOM # and alt bom 
we noticed we are missing tables to deterministically refer materials to BOMs/Recipes as it currently 
only has (at prod -2134 -entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bompdb_prod_bom_mysql_restricted_confidential) 
BOM Portal specific recipe tables (e.g.: recipe_change_hist) which cannot be correlated to any 
material/BOM reference to SAP until we have other tables ingested. 
STKO STPO MAST BOM_MYSQL
Bill of Material Bill of Material Bill of Material SAP_BOM_NUM
Alternative BOM Alternative BOM
Valid From Valid From Valid_Start_Date
Created On Created on Created On Create_Date
Changed On Changed on Changed On Mod_Date
BOM Status
Created in plant
Valid to Valid to Valid_End_Date
BOM Version SAP_VERSION_NUM
Component
Material Material
Plant Plant
BOM Usage
Md_material
Material_num
Material_descr
Material_type_code
Material_created_on_date
Material_last_change_date
Md_material_to_bom
Material_Num Long Material Number
Plant_Num Plant code 
Bom_usage
Bill_of_material
Alternative_bom
Md_bom_usage 
Bom_usage_code Identifies where bom is used Monday, March 17, 2025 12:53 PM
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 739    
OVERRIDE_THROUGHPUT_QTY
OVERRIDE_LB_DAY_QTY
OVERRIDE_CREW_QTY
INVN_PT_RECIPE_TYPE_ID
VALID_START_DATE
VALID_END_DATE
BOM_TYPEAlternative_bom
Md_bom_usage 
Bom_usage_code Identifies where bom is used 
Bom_usage_descr Costing(6), production(1), etc. 
Bom_usage
Txn_bom_cost_estimate –Contains header information
Costing_Date
Material_num
Header_material_num
Header_plant_num
Material_long_num
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 740    
Yesterday Andre shared with Ayesha some context related to recon report. 
Ayesha wants a schema diagrom of those tables like the joins we are going to use 
Context –Possibility of using just GCP
There was a project that was providing analytics layer for every system, analytics team ingested data out 
of BOM P, Project never got concluded. We are not only going to use GCP
We are going to model from GCP for SAP related data
Other will be BOM connection for BOM MySQL
GCP refreshed on a normal basis
Indeed the granularity that was exposed in data lake was not aligned between bom and SAP however 
were going to continue with those two data processes
BOM Portal –SAP Fiels
Ayesha to review policies around PowerBI and Data Streaming guidelines. -Data out of GCP for SAP then 
we need connector to BOM_MYSQL Query and that. Reason for wanting to know best practice: from a 
data streaming perspective is fetching data out of GCP or cloud services. Andre wants to verify with 
MySQL we don’t jeopardize anything from PowerBI or in our analysis
We have until next tuesday to map out what we have with BOM_MySQL 
Which fields will provide constraints for what the business asked.
HSAP to BOM Reconciliation
Wednesday, March 12, 2025 9:03 AM
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 741    
Apps Description : 
The document should clearly describe the application of the Power BI report, including the 
architecture, methodology, and query logic used for reconciling BOM data between the BOM 
Portal and SAP S4/HANA.•
Ensure it mentions the identification of necessary data sources, evaluation of scheduling and 
time constraints, and collaboration with stakeholders.•1.
Acceptance Criteria : 
Document all necessary data sources for the report.•
Detail a plan addressing scheduling constraints.•
Document insights and best practices from stakeholders, specifically mentioning Ayesha's 
insights if available.•2.
Business Statement/Value : 
Explain how developing a robust Power BI report architecture for SAP and BOM Portal 
reconciliation will enhance data accuracy, provide valuable insights for decision -making, and 
improve operational efficiency.•
Emphasize stakeholder involvement and adherence to best practices.•3.
Technical Details : 
Ensure the report architecture supports efficient data reconciliation and visualization.•
Utilize PowerBI features such as data modeling, DAX, and visualization tools to build the report.•
Include specific SQL queries for data extraction and reconciliation logic.•4.
Linked Issues : 
List any related issues that need to be linked to the document, such as discrepancies in BOM 
data, challenges in data synchronization, or performance optimization concerns.•5.
Questions to Address:
Apps Description : 
What are the key attributes compared in the reconciliation process (material numbers, plant 
codes, BOM validity dates)?•
How is data sourced and ingested into Power BI (GCP, MySQL, BigQuery)?•
What is the goal of the resulting dashboard?•1.
Acceptance Criteria : 
What are the necessary data sources for the report?•
What scheduling constraints need to be addressed?•
What insights and best practices from stakeholders, especially Ayesha, need to be documented?•2.
Business Statement/Value : 
How does the Power BI report architecture enhance data accuracy and provide valuable 
insights?•
How does it improve operational efficiency?•
How does stakeholder involvement and adherence to best practices contribute to the project's 
success?•3.
Technical Details : 
How does the report architecture support efficient data reconciliation and visualization?•
What PowerBI features are utilized (data modeling, DAX, visualization tools)?•
What are the specific SQL queries used for data extraction and reconciliation?•4.
Linked Issues : 
What related issues need to be linked to the document?•
Are there any challenges in data synchronization or performance optimization that need to be 
addressed?•5.Ensure it mentions the identification of necessary data sources, evaluation of scheduling and time 
constraints, and collaboration with stakeholders.•
For our report in dev I was going to use directQuery however when we build the report for production it 
will need to use import mode. 
Do we need to use storage api? 
For time out limits I currently have them set to 
Certainly! Below is the filled -out configuration for a Google BigQuery connection based on the details 
provided from your queries and requirements.
### Google BigQuery Configuration
1. **Billing Project ID (optional)**:
   -`prod -2134 -entdatalake -5938ee`
2. **Use Storage API (optional)**:
   -`true`
3. **Connection Timeout Duration**:
   -`0.00:05:00` (5 minutes)
4. **Command Timeout Duration**:
   -`0.00:10:00` (10 minutes)
5. **Project ID (optional)**:
   -`prod -2134 -entdatalake -5938ee`
6. **SQL Statement (optional, requires Project ID)**:
   ```sql
   --Step 1: Extract Valid BOMs from BOM Portal
   WITH bom_data AS (
       SELECT
           p.PLANT_CODE,
           m.MATERIAL_NUM
       FROM
           `prod -2134 -
entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bompdb_prod_bom_mysql_restricted_confidential.recipe_current` r
       INNER JOIN
           `prod -2134 -
entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bom_mysql_bom_mysql_internal.plant_material_xref_current` pmx
       ON
           pmx.PLANT_MATERIAL_ID = r.PLANT_MATERIAL_ID
       INNER JOIN
           `prod -2134 -entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bom_mysql_bom_mysql_internal.material_current` m
       ON
           m.MATERIAL_ID = pmx.MATERIAL_ID
       INNER JOIN
           `prod -2134 -entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bom_mysql_bom_mysql_internal.plant_current` p
       ON
           p.PLANT_ID = pmx.PLANT_ID
       WHERE
           r.VALID_END_DATE IS NULL
   ),
   --Step 2: Extract Valid BOMs from SAP
   sap_data AS (
       SELECT
           mast.WERKS AS PLANT_CODE,
           REGEXP_REPLACE(mast.MATNR, r'^0+', '') AS MATERIAL_NUM
       FROM
           `prod -2134 -entdatalake -5938ee.bigquery_prod_2434_entdataingest_
05104f_s4hana_internal.mast_current` mast
       INNER JOIN
           `prod -2134 -entdatalake -5938ee.bigquery_prod_2434_entdataingest_
05104f_s4hana_confidential.stko_current` stko
       ON
           mast.STLNR = stko.STLNRPowerBI
Tuesday, April 08, 2025 1:13 PM
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 742    
       INNER JOIN
           `prod -2134 -entdatalake -5938ee.bigquery_prod_2434_entdataingest_
05104f_s4hana_confidential.stpo_current` stpo
       ON
           mast.STLNR = stpo.STLNR
       WHERE
           stko.VALID_TO = '9999 -12-31' AND stko.STLTY = 'M'
   ),
   --Step 3: Identify Discrepancies
   discrepancies AS (
       SELECT DISTINCT
           COALESCE(bom.PLANT_CODE, sap.PLANT_CODE) AS PLANT_CODE,
           bom.MATERIAL_NUM AS bom_material_num,
           sap.MATERIAL_NUM AS sap_material_num,
           CASE
               WHEN bom.MATERIAL_NUM IS NULL THEN 'Not on BOM'
               WHEN sap.MATERIAL_NUM IS NULL THEN 'Not on SAP'
           END AS status
       FROM
           bom_data bom
       FULL OUTER JOIN
           sap_data sap
       ON
           bom.PLANT_CODE = sap.PLANT_CODE AND bom.MATERIAL_NUM = sap.MATERIAL_NUM
       WHERE
           bom.MATERIAL_NUM IS NULL OR sap.MATERIAL_NUM IS NULL
   )
   --Step 4: Combine Results and Add Summary Row
   SELECT
       PLANT_CODE,
       bom_material_num,
       sap_material_num,
       status
   FROM
       discrepancies
   UNION ALL
   SELECT
       'TOTAL' AS PLANT_CODE,
       NULL AS bom_material_num,
       NULL AS sap_material_num,
       CONCAT('Not on BOM: ', COUNTIF(status = 'Not on BOM'), ', Not on SAP: ', COUNTIF(status = 'Not on 
SAP')) AS status
   FROM
       discrepancies
   ORDER BY
       PLANT_CODE, status;
   ```
### Explanation:
1. **Billing Project ID**:
   -Set to the project ID where billing is managed: `prod -2134 -entdatalake -5938ee`.
2. **Use Storage API**:
   -Set to `true` to utilize the Storage API for improved performance.
3. **Connection Timeout Duration**:
   -Set to `5 minutes` to allow sufficient time for establishing a connection.
4. **Command Timeout Duration**:
   -Set to `10 minutes` to allow sufficient time for executing the command.
5. **Project ID**:
   -Set to the project ID where data is stored: `prod -2134 -entdatalake -5938ee`.
6. **SQL Statement**:
   -The SQL statement provided extracts and reconciles BOM data between the BOM Portal and SAP, 
identifies discrepancies, and generates a summary row.
By filling out the configuration window with these details, you will be able to establish a connection to 
Google BigQuery, execute the necessary queries, and generate the required Power BI report for BOM 
data reconciliation
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 743    
Timing of the Meeting
Preparation Phase: Schedule the meeting after you have a draft version of the reconciliation report 
ready. This allows you to present concrete examples and gather specific feedback.•
Stakeholder Availability: Ensure that key stakeholders from the business side are available. This might 
include finance, accounting, and IT representatives who have a vested interest in the reconciliation 
process.•
Project Milestones: Align the meeting with project milestones to ensure that the discussion fits within 
the broader project timeline and allows for any necessary adjustments before finalizing the report.•
Meeting Description
Title: Discussion on SAP Reconciliation Report in PowerBI
Objective: The purpose of this meeting is to review the draft version of the SAP reconciliation report created 
in PowerBI. We aim to gather feedback from business stakeholders, ensure that the report meets business 
requirements, and identify any necessary adjustments or additional features.
Agenda:
Introduction: 
Brief overview of the reconciliation report project.•
Objectives of the report and its importance for the business.•1.
Report Presentation: 
Walkthrough of the draft reconciliation report in PowerBI.•
Explanation of key metrics, data sources, and visualizations used.•2.
Feedback Session: 
Open discussion for feedback on the report layout, data accuracy, and usability.•
Identification of any missing elements or additional requirements.•3.
Action Items: 
Summary of feedback and agreed -upon changes. •
Next steps and timeline for finalizing the report.•4.
Questions to Guide the Discussion
Report Content and Layout: 
Does the current layout of the report meet your expectations?•
Are there any specific metrics or data points that are missing from the report?•
Is the information presented in a clear and understandable manner?•1.
Data Accuracy and Sources: 
Are there any concerns about the accuracy of the data presented in the report?•
Are the data sources used for the report appropriate and reliable?•2.
Usability and Functionality: 
Is the report easy to navigate and use?•
Are there any additional features or functionalities you would like to see in the report?•3.
Business Requirements: 
Does the report align with the business requirements and objectives?•
Are there any specific business processes or scenarios that the report should address?•4.
Feedback and Improvements: 
What are the key areas for improvement in the current version of the report?•
Are there any additional visualizations or filters that would enhance the report's usability?•5.
Next Steps: 
What are the immediate next steps to incorporate the feedback received?•
What is the timeline for the next review or finalization of the report?•6.4/8/15 -meeting
Tuesday, April 08, 2025 2:13 PM
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 744    
plant_current
prod -2134 -entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bom_mysql_bom_mysql_internal.plant_material_xref_current
Field name Type Mode Key Collatio
nDefault 
ValuePolicy 
Tags Descripti
on
PLANT_IDINTEGER REQUIRE
DPK - - -
-
PLANT_CODESTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
PLANT_DESCRSTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
SAP_COSTING
_INDINTEGER NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
OVERRIDE_FO
RMULATION_I
NDINTEGER NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
SAP_BOM_TYP
ESTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
MOD_USERIDSTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
MOD_DATETIMESTA
MPNULLAB
LE- - - -
-
PLANT_TYPESTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
PLANT_TYPE_
DESCRSTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
DICE_CHANGE
_SOURCE_WA
TERMARKTIMESTA
MPNULLAB
LEPK - - -
-
DICE_CHANGE
_INDICATORSTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
DICE_CHANGE
_HASH
plant_material_xref_current
prod -2134 -entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bom_mysql_bom_mysql_internal.plant_material_xref_current
Field name Type Mode Key Collatio Default Policy DescriptiThursday, April 10, 2025 10:52 AM
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 745    
Field name Type Mode Key Collatio
nDefault 
ValuePolicy 
Tags Descripti
on
PLANT_MATER
IAL_IDINTEGER REQUIRE
DPK - - -
-
PLANT_IDINTEGER REQUIRE
D- - - -
-
MATERIAL_IDINTEGER REQUIRE
D- - - -
-
PLANT_DELETE
_INDINTEGER NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
PLANT_STATU
SSTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
PROCUREMEN
T_TYPESTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
ISSUE_UOM_I
DINTEGER NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
MATERIAL_EX
TENDED_INDINTEGER NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
MAIN_INGRED
IENT_INDINTEGER NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
COOK_SHRINK
_PCTNUMERI
CNULLAB
LE- - - -
-
MOD_DATETIMESTA
MPNULLAB
LE- - - -
-
MOD_USERIDSTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
DICE_CHANGE
_SOURCE_WA
TERMARKTIMESTA
MPNULLAB
LEPK - - -
-
DICE_CHANGE
_INDICATORSTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
DICE_CHANGE
_HASH
material_current
prod -2134 -entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bom_mysql_bom_mysql_internal.material_current
Field name Type Mode Key Collatio
nDefault 
ValuePolicy 
Tags Descripti
on
MATERIAL_IDINTEGER REQUIRE
DPK - - -
-
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 746    
MATERIAL_IDD -
MATERIAL_NU
MSTRING REQUIRE
D- - - -
-
MATERIAL_TY
PESTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
MATERIAL_DE
SCRSTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
CORP_DELETE
_INDINTEGER NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
CORP_STATUS
_CODESTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
COSTING_MAT
ERIAL_IDINTEGER NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
BRINE_INGRED
IENT_TYPE_IDINTEGER NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
CORP_BRINE_
PUMP_PCTNUMERI
CNULLAB
LE- - - -
-
COSTING_MO
D_USERIDSTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
COSTING_MO
D_DATETIMESTA
MPNULLAB
LE- - - -
-
MOD_USERIDSTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
MOD_DATETIMESTA
MPNULLAB
LE- - - -
-
CORP_SPEC_IN
DINTEGER NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
MATERIAL_GR
OUPSTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
MATERIAL_GR
OUP_DESCRSTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
DICE_CHANGE
_SOURCE_WA
TERMARKTIMESTA
MPNULLAB
LEPK - - -
-
DICE_CHANGE
_INDICATORSTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
DICE_CHANGESTRING NULLAB -
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 747    
DICE_CHANGE
_HASHSTRING NULLAB
LE-
mast_current prod -2134 -entdatalake -5938ee.bigquery_prod_2434
_entdataingest_05104f_s4hana_internal.mast_current
Field name Type Mode Key Collatio
nDefault 
ValuePolicy 
Tags Descripti
on
AEDATDATE NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
AENAMSTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
ANDATDATE NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
ANNAMSTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
CSLTYSTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
LOSBSNUMERI
CNULLAB
LE- - - -
-
LOSVNNUMERI
CNULLAB
LE- - - -
-
MANDTSTRING NULLAB
LEPK - - -
-
MATNRSTRING NULLAB
LEPK - - -
-
STLALSTRING NULLAB
LEPK - - -
-
STLANSTRING NULLAB
LEPK - - -
-
STLNRSTRING NULLAB
LEPK - - -
-
WERKSSTRING NULLAB
LEPK - - -
-
OPERATION_F
LAGSTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
IS_DELETEDBOOLEA
NNULLAB
LE- - - -
-
RECORDSTAM
PTIMESTA
MPNULLAB
LE- - - -
-
material_bom
_keySTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
DICE_CHANGE
_SOURCE_WA
TERMARKTIMESTA
MPNULLAB
LEPK - - -
-
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 748    
DICE_CHANGE
_INDICATORSTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
DICE_CHANGE
_HASH
stko_current
prod-2134 -entdatalake -5938ee.bigquery_prod_2434_entdataingest_
05104f_s4hana_confidential.stko_current
Field name Type Mode Key Collatio
nDefault 
ValuePolicy 
Tags Descripti
on
mandtSTRING NULLAB
LEPK - - -
-
stltySTRING NULLAB
LEPK - - -
-
stlnrSTRING NULLAB
LEPK - - -
-
stlalSTRING NULLAB
LEPK - - -
-
stkozSTRING NULLAB
LEPK - - -
-
datuvDATE NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
techvSTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
aennrSTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
lkenzSTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
loekzSTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
vgkzlSTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
andatDATE NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
annamSTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
aedatDATE NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
aenamSTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
bmeinSTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
bmengNUMERI
CNULLAB
LE- - - -
-
cadkzSTRING NULLAB - - - -
-
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 749    
cadkzSTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
laborSTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
ltxspSTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
stktxSTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
stlstSTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
wrkanSTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
dvdatDATE NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
dvnamSTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
aehlpSTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
alekzSTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
guidxSTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
valid_toDATE NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
ecn_toSTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
bom_versnSTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
versnstSTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
versnlastindSTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
lastchangedat
etimeNUMERI
CNULLAB
LE- - - -
-
dummy_stko_i
ncl_eew_psSTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
operation_flagSTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
is_deletedBOOLEA
NNULLAB
LE- - - -
-
recordstampTIMESTA
MPNULLAB
LE- - - -
-
bom_ain_indSTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
bom_prev_ver
snSTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 750    
snLE -
DICE_CHANGE
_SOURCE_WA
TERMARKTIMESTA
MPNULLAB
LEPK - - -
-
DICE_CHANGE
_INDICATORSTRING NULLAB
LE- - - -
-
DICE_CHANGE
_HASHSTRING NULLAB
LE-
stpo_current prod -2134 -entdatalake -5938ee.bigquery_prod_2434
_entdataingest_05104f_s4hana_confidential.stpo_current
Field 
nameType Mode Key Collatio
nDefault 
ValuePolicy 
Tags Descriptio
n
mandtSTRING NULLABL
EPK - - -
-
stltySTRING NULLABL
EPK - - -
-
stlnrSTRING NULLABL
EPK - - -
-
stlknSTRING NULLABL
EPK - - -
-
stpozSTRING NULLABL
EPK - - -
-
datuvDATE NULLABL
E- - - -
-
techvSTRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
aennrSTRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
lkenzSTRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
vgkntSTRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
vgpzlSTRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
andatDATE NULLABL
E- - - -
-
annamSTRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
aedatDATE NULLABL
E- - - -
-
aenamSTRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
idnrkSTRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 751    
idnrkE -
pswrkSTRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
postpSTRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
posnrSTRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
sortfSTRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
meinsSTRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
mengeNUMERI
CNULLABL
E- - - -
-
fmengSTRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
auschNUMERI
CNULLABL
E- - - -
-
avoauNUMERI
CNULLABL
E- - - -
-
netauSTRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
schgtSTRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
beikzSTRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
erskzSTRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
rvrelSTRING NULLABL
E- - - -
-
sanfeSTRING NULLABL
E- - -
Recipe Current
prod -2134 -
entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bompdb_prod_bom_mysql_restricted_confidential.recipe_current
Filter
Field 
nameType Mode Key Collati
onDefault 
ValuePolicy 
Tags Descri
ption
RECIPE_I
DINTEG
ERREQUI
REDPK - - -
-
PLANT_M
ATERIAL_I
DINTEG
ERREQUI
RED- - - -
-
SAP_VER
SION_NUINTEG
ERREQUI
RED- - - -
-
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 752    
SION_NU
MER RED -
SAP_RECI
PE_NUMSTRIN
GNULLA
BLE- - - -
-
SAP_BOM
_NUMSTRIN
GNULLA
BLE- - - -
-
STATUS_
DATETIMES
TAMPNULLA
BLE- - - -
-
RESOURC
E_NETWO
RK_NUMSTRIN
GNULLA
BLE- - - -
-
CREATE_
DATETIMES
TAMPNULLA
BLE- - - -
-
RECIPE_S
TATUS_IDINTEG
ERREQUI
RED- - - -
-
ORIGINAT
OR_IDINTEG
ERREQUI
RED- - - -
-
OWNER_I
DINTEG
ERNULLA
BLE- - - -
-
RECIPE_D
ESCRSTRIN
GNULLA
BLE- - - -
-
ESP_PAR
ENT_RECI
PE_IDINTEG
ERNULLA
BLE- - - -
-
SPEC_MA
TERIAL_IDINTEG
ERNULLA
BLE- - - -
-
COST_TE
ST_INDINTEG
ERNULLA
BLE- - - -
-
PRODUCT
ION_SEN
D_DATETIMES
TAMPNULLA
BLE- - - -
-
STANDAR
DS_OVER
RIDE_DAT
ETIMES
TAMPNULLA
BLE- - - -
-
STANDARINTEG NULLA - - - -
-
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 753    
STANDAR
DS_OVER
RIDE_USE
RIDINTEG
ERNULLA
BLE- - - -
-
MOD_USE
RIDINTEG
ERNULLA
BLE- - - -
-
MOD_DAT
ETIMES
TAMPNULLA
BLE- - - -
-
ALT_PAC
K_METHO
D_INDINTEG
ERNULLA
BLE- - - -
-
ALT_PAC
K_METHO
D_RECIPE
_NUMSTRIN
GNULLA
BLE- - - -
-
PLANT_R
ESOURCE
_NETWOR
K_IDINTEG
ERNULLA
BLE- - - -
-
THROUGH
PUT_QTYNUME
RICNULLA
BLE- - - data_at_ty
son_res... : 
plantbom_r
estricted_co
nfidential_ta
g-
LB_DAY_
QTYNUME
RICNULLA
BLE- - - data_at_ty
son_res... : 
plantbom_r
estricted_co
nfidential_ta
g-
CREW_QT
YNUME
RICNULLA
BLE- - - data_at_ty
son_res... : 
plantbom_r
estricted_co
nfidential_ta
g-
OVERRID
E_PLANT_
RESOURC
E_NETWO
RK_IDINTEG
ERNULLA
BLE- - - -
-
OVERRID
E_THROU
GHPUT_QNUME
RICNULLA
BLE- - - data_at_ty
son_res... : 
plantbom_r-
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 754    
GHPUT_Q
TYplantbom_r
estricted_co
nfidential_ta
g
OVERRID
E_LB_DAY
_QTYNUME
RICNULLA
BLE- - - data_at_ty
son_res... : 
plantbom_r
estricted_co
nfidential_ta
g-
OVERRID
E_CREW_
QTYNUME
RICNULLA
BLE- - - data_at_ty
son_res... : 
plantbom_r
estricted_co
nfidential_ta
g-
INVN_PT_
RECIPE_T
YPE_IDINTEG
ERREQUI
RED- - - -
-
VALID_ST
ART_DAT
ETIMES
TAMPNULLA
BLE- - - -
-
VALID_EN
D_DATETIMES
TAMPNULLA
BLE- - - -
-
BOM_TYP
ESTRIN
GREQUI
RED- - - -
-
DICE_CHA
NGE_SOU
RCE_WAT
ERMARKTIMES
TAMPNULLA
BLEPK - - -
-
DICE_CHA
NGE_INDI
CATORSTRIN
GNULLA
BLE- - - -
-
DICE_CHA
NGE_HAS
H
Using the tables above create a query for use in a PowerBI project
I want to be able to do the following in PowerBI
Page 1: Overview
Purpose: Provide a high -level summary of material discrepancies between BOM Portal and SAP.
Key Components:
Title: "Material Discrepancy Overview"•
Filters: Date and Plant filters for dynamic data exploration. •
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 755    
Filters: Date and Plant filters for dynamic data exploration. •
Cards: Display total discrepancies, materials not on BOM, and materials not on SAP. •
Charts: 
Pie Chart: Proportion of materials not on BOM vs. not on SAP.○
Bar Chart: Discrepancies by plant.○•
Table: Summary of discrepancies with key attributes (plant code, material numbers, status). •
KPIs: Highlight key metrics such as total discrepancies and average resolution time.•
Page 2: Detailed Discrepancies
Purpose: Offer an in -depth view of discrepancies for further analysis.
Key Components:
Title: "Detailed Discrepancies"•
Filters: Date, Plant, and Discrepancy Type filters. •
Table: Detailed list of discrepancies with comprehensive attributes. •
Charts: 
Line Chart: Trend of discrepancies over time.○
Bar Chart: Discrepancies by material type.○•
Annotations: Highlight significant data points or trends. •
Page 3: Plant -Specific Analysis
Purpose: Focus on discrepancies at the plant level for targeted insights.
Key Components:
Title: "Plant -Specific Analysis" •
Filters: Date and Plant filters. •
Cards: Metrics specific to the selected plant (total discrepancies, materials not on BOM, materials not on 
SAP).•
Charts: 
Bar Chart: Discrepancies by material type for the selected plant.○
Pie Chart: Proportion of not on BOM vs. not on SAP for the selected plant.○•
Table: Detailed discrepancies for the selected plant. •
KPIs: Plant -specific metrics such as total discrepancies and average resolution time. •
Page 4: Trend Analysis
Purpose: Analyze trends in discrepancies over time.
Key Components:
Title: "Trend Analysis"•
Filters: Date and Plant filters. •
Charts: 
Line Chart: Overall trend of discrepancies over time.○
Line Chart: Trend of not on BOM over time.○
Line Chart: Trend of not on SAP over time.○•
Annotations: Highlight significant trends or changes. •
Page 5: Summary and Actions
Purpose: Summarize key insights and outline action items for stakeholders.
Key Components:
Title: "Summary and Actions"•
Summary Cards: Key metrics such as total discrepancies, materials not on BOM, materials not on SAP, 
average resolution time, and new discrepancies.•
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 756    
average resolution time, and new discrepancies.
Action Items: List of action items with responsible departments and due dates. •
Charts: 
Bar Chart: Discrepancies by responsible department.○
Pie Chart: Proportion of action items by status (completed, in progress, pending○•
The following query is great for reconciliation on its own but is lacking date/time info from the Dice Ingestion 
timestamp
WITH bom_data AS (
    SELECT 
        p.PLANT_CODE ,
        m.MATERIAL_NUM
    FROM
        `prod -2134 -entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bompdb_prod_bom_mysql_restricted_confidential.recipe_current` r
    INNER JOIN
        `prod -2134 -entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bom_mysql_bom_mysql_internal.plant_material_xref_current` pmx
    ON
        pmx.PLANT_MATERIAL_ID = r.PLANT_MATERIAL_ID
    INNER JOIN
        `prod -2134 -entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bom_mysql_bom_mysql_internal.material_current` m
    ON
        m.MATERIAL_ID = pmx.MATERIAL_ID
    INNER JOIN
        `prod -2134 -entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bom_mysql_bom_mysql_internal.plant_current` p
    ON
        p.PLANT_ID = pmx.PLANT_ID
    WHERE
        r.VALID_END_DATE IS NULL
),
sap_data AS (
    SELECT
        mast.WERKS AS PLANT_CODE ,
        REGEXP_REPLACE (mast.MATNR , r'^0+' , '') AS MATERIAL_NUM
    FROM
        `prod -2134 -entdatalake -5938ee.bigquery_prod_2434_entdataingest_05104f_s4hana_internal.mast_current` mast
    INNER JOIN
        `prod -2134 -entdatalake -5938ee.bigquery_prod_2434_entdataingest_05104f_s4hana_confidential.stko_current` stko
    ON
        mast.STLNR = stko.STLNR
    INNER JOIN
        `prod -2134 -entdatalake -5938ee.bigquery_prod_2434_entdataingest_05104f_s4hana_confidential.stpo_current` stpo
    ON
        mast.STLNR = stpo.STLNR
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 757    
        mast.STLNR = stpo.STLNR
    WHERE
        stko.VALID_TO = '9999 -12-31'
        AND stko.STLTY = 'M'
),
discrepancies AS (
    SELECT DISTINCT
        COALESCE (bom.PLANT_CODE , sap.PLANT_CODE ) AS PLANT_CODE ,
        bom.MATERIAL_NUM AS bom_material_num ,
        sap.MATERIAL_NUM AS sap_material_num ,
        CASE
            WHEN bom.MATERIAL_NUM IS NULL THEN 'Not on BOM'
            WHEN sap.MATERIAL_NUM IS NULL THEN 'Not on SAP'
        END AS status
    FROM
        bom_data bom
    FULL OUTER JOIN
        sap_data sap
    ON
        bom.PLANT_CODE = sap.PLANT_CODE AND bom.MATERIAL_NUM = sap.MATERIAL_NUM
    WHERE
        bom.MATERIAL_NUM IS NULL OR sap.MATERIAL_NUM IS NULL
)
SELECT 
    PLANT_CODE ,
    bom_material_num ,
    sap_material_num ,
    status
FROM 
    discrepancies
UNION ALL
SELECT 
    'TOTAL' AS PLANT_CODE ,
    NULL AS bom_material_num ,
    NULL AS sap_material_num ,
    CONCAT ('Not on BOM: ' , COUNTIF (status = 'Not on BOM' ), ', Not on SAP: ' , COUNTIF (status = 'Not on SAP' )) AS status
FROM 
    discrepancies
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 758    
ORDER BY 
    PLANT_CODE , status ;
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Page 759    
Recipe
Throughputs (Base Quantity)1.
Crew (3rdStandard Value) 2.
Recipe Steps3.
Resource Assignment.4.
BOM
Components (WIP/Phantom/Ingredients/Packaging)1.
Usage Percentage2.
Scrap Factor3.
Seconds / Byproducts4.
Seconds / Byproducts Percentage5.
Item Category (Stock / Non -Stock, Etc.) 6.
Unit of Measure7.
Major Setbacks: Figuring out how to correlate the tables without a direct 1:1 ratio. Figuring out how to 
match SAP BOMs with their bom number
The current Query returns the following:
Plant Code, Recipe Group, Recipe Group Counter, BOM Number, Alternative BOM, BOM Usage, Primary 
MaterialNumber, Primary UoM, Primary Material Description, Throughput (From PI05), Crewing (From 
PI05), BOM_ITEM Number, Component Material Number, Component Description, Usage Percent, Scrap 
Percent (Assembly still trying to figure out component and operation scrap), Formulation Quantity, 
Component_UoM, Item Category
Correct the Query to only return the following:
Plant code, recipe group, recipe group counter, primary material number, primary UoM, primary 
material description, throughput and crewing
How are using the current report? How is it benefitting
BOM Portal Query 
SELECT DISTINCT
  r.RECIPE_ID                              AS RecipeID,
  p.PLANT_CODE                             AS PlantCode,
  r.BOM_TYPE                               AS BOMType,
  CASE
    WHEN r.BOM_TYPE = 'production' THEN r.SAP_VERSION_NUM + 31
    WHEN r.BOM_TYPE = 'finance'    THEN r.SAP_VERSION_NUM + 1
  END                                      AS Version,
  m.MATERIAL_NUM                            AS Primary_Material,
  r.THROUGHPUT_QTY                          AS Throughput,
  r.CREW_QTY                                AS Crewing,
  CONCAT_WS(' -', cfs.FORMULATION_STEP_CODE, cfs.FORMULATION_STEP_VERSION) AS StepCode,
  cfs.FORMULATION_STEP_DESCR               AS Step_Description,
  cm.MATERIAL_NUM                          AS Component_Material,
  cm.MATERIAL_DESCR                        AS Component_Description,
  sc.USAGE_PROBABILITY_PCT AS Usage_PCT,
  sc.COMP_SCRAP_PCT                         AS Scrap_Percentage,
  ict.ITEM_CODE_TYPE_DESCR                 AS Item_Category,
  u.UOM_DESCR                              AS UOM_Description,
  r.VALID_START_DATE,
  r.VALID_END_DATE 
FROM RECIPE r
  INNER JOIN PLANT_MATERIAL_XREF pmx ON r.PLANT_MATERIAL_ID = pmx.PLANT_MATERIAL_ID
  INNER JOIN PLANT p ON pmx.PLANT_ID = p.PLANT_ID
  INNER JOIN MATERIAL m ON pmx.MATERIAL_ID = m.MATERIAL_ID
  INNER JOIN RECIPE_FORMULATION_XREF rfx ON r.RECIPE_ID = rfx.RECIPE_ID
  INNER JOIN FORMULATION_STEP fs ON rfx.FORMULATION_STEP_ID = fs.FORMULATION_STEP_ID
  INNER JOIN CORP_FORMULATION_STEP cfs ON fs.CORP_FORMULATION_STEP_ID = 
cfs.CORP_FORMULATION_STEP_ID
  INNER JOIN STEP_COMPONENT_GROUP scg ON scg.FORMULATION_STEP_ID = 
fs.FORMULATION_STEP_ID
  INNER JOIN STEP_COMPONENT sc ON sc.STEP_COMPONENT_GROUP_ID = 
scg.STEP_COMPONENT_GROUP_ID
  INNER JOIN PLANT_MATERIAL_XREF cpmx ON sc.PLANT_MATERIAL_ID = cpmx.PLANT_MATERIAL_ID
  INNER JOIN MATERIAL cm ON cpmx.MATERIAL_ID = cm.MATERIAL_ID
  INNER JOIN ITEM_CODE_TYPE ict ON ict.ITEM_CODE_TYPE_ID = sc.ITEM_CODE_TYPE_ID
  INNER JOIN MATERIAL_UOM_XREF mux ON mux.MATERIAL_UOM_ID = sc.MATERIAL_UOM_ID
  INNER JOIN UOM u ON u.UOM_ID = mux.UOM_ID
  WHERE r.VALID_END_DATE IS NULL
  AND m.MATERIAL_NUM  = 10000053149
    and rfx.INVN_PT_IND = 1
    and r.BOM_TYPE = 'finance'
    and p.plant_code = 1506
  AND sc.USAGE_PROBABILITY_PCT <> 0SAP Query
WITH latest_stko AS (
  SELECT *
  FROM (
    SELECT
      stko.stlnr ,
      stko.stlty ,
      stko.datuv AS bom_valid_from_date ,
      stko.valid_to AS bom_valid_to_date ,
      stko.loekz AS bom_deletion_flag ,
      mast.matnr ,
      mast.werks ,
      mast.stlan ,
      mast.stlal ,
      ROW_NUMBER () OVER (
        PARTITION BY mast.matnr , mast.werks , mast.stlan , mast.stlal
        ORDER BY stko.datuv DESC
      ) AS rn
    FROM `bigquery_prod_2434_entdataingest_05104f_s4hana_confidential.stko_current` stko
    JOIN `bigquery_prod_2434_entdataingest_05104f_s4hana_internal.mast_current` mast
      ON stko.stlnr = mast.stlnr
    WHERE stko.valid_to = '9999 -12-31'
    and stko.stlty = 'M'
    and stko.lkenz is null
  )
  WHERE rn= 1
),
latest_stpo AS (
  SELECT *
  FROM (
    SELECT
      stpo.meins ,
      stpo.stlnr ,
      stpo.posnr ,
      stpo.idnrk ,
      stpo.menge ,
      stpo.ewahr ,
      stpo.ausch ,
      stpo.datuv AS component_valid_from_date ,
      stpo.valid_to AS component_valid_to_date ,
      stpo.lkenz AS component_deletion_flag ,
      stpo.postp AS item_category ,
      ROW_NUMBER () OVER (
        PARTITION BY stpo.stlnr , stpo.posnr , stpo.idnrk
        ORDER BY stpo.datuv DESC
      ) AS rn
    FROM `bigquery_prod_2434_entdataingest_05104f_s4hana_confidential.stpo_current` stpo
    WHERE stpo.valid_to = '9999 -12-31'
    AND stpo.lkenz is null
    AND stpo.stlty = 'M'
  )
  WHERE rn= 1
),
pi05_step AS (
  SELECT *
  FROM (
    SELECT
      plpo.plnnr ,
      plpo.plnty ,
      plpo.werks ,
      plpo.bmsch ,
      plpo.vgw03 ,
      ROW_NUMBER () OVER (
        PARTITION BY plpo.plnnr , plpo.plnty , plpo.werks
        ORDER BY plpo.datuv DESC
      ) AS rn
    FROM `bigquery_prod_2434_entdataingest_05104f_s4hana_internal.plpo_current` plpo
    WHERE plpo.steus = 'PI05'
      AND plpo.valid_to = '9999 -12-31'
      AND plpo.loekz IS NULL
      AND plpo.plnty = '2'
  )
  WHERE rn= 1
)
SELECT
  stko.werks AS Plant_Code ,
  mkal.plnnr AS Recipe_Group ,
  mkal.alnal AS Recipe_Group_Counter ,
  REGEXP_REPLACE (stko.stlnr , r'^0+' , '') AS BOM_Number ,
  stko.stlal AS Alt_BOM ,
  stko.stlan AS BOM_Usage ,
  REGEXP_REPLACE (stko.matnr , r'^0+' , '') AS Primary_Material_Number ,Notes 6/27/2025
Formulation Quantity he wants the quantity data 
Quantity required to make that product. 
Quantity without scrap and scrap without that. 
CK13n
Total Quantity Includes all scraps and usage probability spec quantity
Spec Quantity 
Submit to SAP Possibly sending total calculated quantity 
Geof follow up with cost structure.
Scrap 
We need to have a conversation about how quantities are sent into SAP 
When we go to submit to BOM 
Do we want to continue down this path 
What are the issues down this path
ESP Population 
Simpler solution on BOM Portal, 
Send the calc quantity forget about spec quantity
Review Submission Logic 
Populate the calc quantity 
Unchecked Inventory NOT On SAP unchecked inventory points
Risk Stranded abandoned unchecked inventory points that could be deleted
NOT ON BOM have the issues, they can produce a product that we may not have eyes on in bom portal 
that are sitting in. The APB's some lost recipe_ID recipe ID field shows  18066235675 BOM Portal. Some 
items are part of the report, but bom portal lost the ID. What change in the report needed to change 
that issues. The BOM matches the report doesn’t. Hey, theres an issue.  ix is to refresh the bom –not a 
reporting problem, bom portal problem. What's the answer to that problem. I'm going to refresh it. 
1705 of zfg zfgi not on bom we should be able to clean and sync, truly problems. 
OUT OF 5000 zcwp some portion of 1890 is a bom portal problem. 
Do we want to delete it or not. 
Unchecked Inventory Point Immediately we put all attention on ZFG biggest risk, get everything cleaned up then switch
How are we doing as a collection to get this number down, multiple people working multiple locations
The red flag warning, lease likely to have a problem on the report. 
Plant Code, Recipe Group, Group Counter, Primary Material Number, Primary Material Description, 
Throughput and CrewingComponent Level SAP Reconciliation Iteration 1
Thursday, June 26, 2025 9:55 AM
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Component Level Page 760    
  REGEXP_REPLACE (stko.matnr , r'^0+' , '') AS Primary_Material_Number ,
  mara.MEINS AS Primary_UoM , 
  makt_primary.maktx AS Primary_Material_Description ,
  pi05.bmsch AS Throughput ,
  pi05.vgw03 AS Crewing ,
  stpo.posnr as Item_Number ,
  REGEXP_REPLACE (stpo.idnrk , r'^0+' , '') AS Component_Material_Number ,
  makt_comp.maktx AS Component_Description ,
  IFNULL (stpo.ewahr , 0) AS Usage_Percent ,
  IFNULL (stpo.ausch , 0) AS Scrap_Percent ,
  stpo.menge AS Formulation_Quantity ,
  stpo.meins AS Component_UOM ,
  CASE 
    WHEN stpo.item_category = 'L' THEN 'Stock Item'
    WHEN stpo.item_category = 'N' THEN 'Non -Stock Item'
    WHEN stpo.item_category = 'D' THEN 'Document Item'
    WHEN stpo.item_category = 'T' THEN 'Text Item'
    ELSE 'Other'
  END AS Item_Category
FROM `bigquery_prod_2434_entdataingest_05104f_s4hana_confidential.mkal_current` mkal
Inner JOIN latest_stko stko
  ON mkal.matnr = stko.matnr AND mkal.werks = stko.werks
INNER JOIN latest_stpo stpo
  ON stko.stlnr = stpo.stlnr
Inner JOIN pi05_step pi05
  ON mkal.plnnr = pi05.plnnr AND mkal.plnty = '2' AND mkal.werks = pi05.werks
Inner JOIN `bigquery_prod_2434_entdataingest_05104f_s4hana_internal.makt_current` makt_primary
  ON mkal.matnr = makt_primary.matnr AND makt_primary.spras = 'E'
Inner JOIN `bigquery_prod_2434_entdataingest_05104f_s4hana_internal.makt_current` makt_comp
  ON stpo.idnrk = makt_comp.matnr AND makt_comp.spras = 'E' 
INNER JOIN `hana_p0a_tenv_s4_internal.mara_current` mara 
  ON mkal.MATNR = mara.MATNR and mkal.mandt = mara.MANDT
WHERE mkal.bdatu = '9999 -12-31'
  AND stpo.menge != 0
  AND mkal.plnnr = '50001084'
  AND stko.stlal = '01'
ORDER BY
  stko.werks ,
  mkal.plnnr ,
  mkal.alnal ,
  REGEXP_REPLACE (stko.stlnr , r'^0+' , ''),
  stko.stlal ,
  stko.stlan ,
  REGEXP_REPLACE (stko.matnr , r'^0+' , ''),
  makt_primary.maktx ,
  pi05.bmsch ,
  pi05.vgw03 ,
  REGEXP_REPLACE (stpo.idnrk , r'^0+' , ''),
  makt_comp.maktx ,
  IFNULL (stpo.ewahr , 0),
  IFNULL (stpo.ausch , 0);
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Component Level Page 761    
First I would like to take the query below: 
--============================================================================
--Reconciliation of BOM -Portal vs. SAP, INCLUDING alternate -BOM versions
--with recipe_formulation_xref_current enforced
--============================================================================
WITH
--1) Portal data (only recipes with at least one formulation entry)
bom_data AS (
  SELECT
    r.RECIPE_ID ,
    p.PLANT_CODE ,
    m.MATERIAL_NUM ,
    m.MATERIAL_DESCR ,
    m.MATERIAL_TYPE ,
    r.BOM_TYPE ,
    CASE
      WHEN r.BOM_TYPE = 'Production' THEN CAST (r.SAP_VERSION_NUM + 31 AS STRING )
      WHEN r.BOM_TYPE = 'Finance'     THEN LPAD (CAST (r.SAP_VERSION_NUM + 1 AS STRING ), 2, '0')
      ELSE r.BOM_TYPE
    END AS BOM_VERSION ,
    DATE (r.VALID_START_DATE ) AS VALID_START_DATE
  FROM
    `prod -2134 -
entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bompdb_prod_bom_mysql_restricted_confidential.recipe_current`        AS r
  INNER JOIN
    `prod -2134 -
entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bom_mysql_bom_mysql_internal.plant_material_xref_current`        AS pmx
    ON r.PLANT_MATERIAL_ID = pmx.PLANT_MATERIAL_ID
  INNER JOIN
    `prod -2134 -entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bom_mysql_bom_mysql_internal.material_current`                    
AS m
    ON pmx.MATERIAL_ID = m.MATERIAL_ID
  INNER JOIN
    `prod -2134 -entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bom_mysql_bom_mysql_internal.plant_current`                       
AS p
    ON pmx.PLANT_ID = p.PLANT_ID
  INNER JOIN
    `mysql_bom_mysql_bom_mysql_internal.recipe_formulation_xref_current` AS rfx
    ON rfx.RECIPE_ID = r.RECIPE_ID
  WHERE
    r.VALID_END_DATE IS NULL
    AND r.BOM_TYPE       IN ('Production' ,'Finance' )
    AND rfx.INVN_PT_IND = 1
    AND NOT (m.MATERIAL_TYPE LIKE 'ZCWP%' AND m.MATERIAL_DESCR LIKE 'PH -%')
),Component Level
Monday, July 07, 2025 9:40 AM
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Component Level Page 762    
--2) SAP CS03 data
sap_data AS (
  SELECT
    mast.WERKS                              AS PLANT_CODE ,
    REGEXP_REPLACE (mast.MATNR , r'^0+' , '') AS MATERIAL_NUM ,
    makt.MAKTX                              AS SAP_MATERIAL_DESCR ,
    mara.MTART                              AS MATERIAL_TYPE ,
    CASE mast.STLAN
      WHEN '1' THEN 'Production'
      WHEN '6' THEN 'Finance'
    END                                     AS BOM_TYPE ,
    mast.STLAL                              AS BOM_VERSION ,
    DATE (stko.DATUV )                       AS VALID_START_DATE ,
    stko.STLNR                              AS SAP_BOM_NUM
  FROM
    `prod -2134 -entdatalake -5938ee.bigquery_prod_2434_entdataingest_
05104f_s4hana_internal.mast_current`   AS mast
  JOIN
    `prod -2134 -entdatalake -5938ee.bigquery_prod_2434_entdataingest_
05104f_s4hana_confidential.stko_current` AS stko
    ON mast.MANDT = stko.MANDT
   AND mast.STLNR = stko.STLNR
   AND mast.STLAL = stko.STLAL
  JOIN
    `prod -2134 -entdatalake -5938ee.bigquery_prod_2434_entdataingest_
05104f_s4hana_internal.makt_current`   AS makt
    ON mast.MATNR = makt.MATNR
  JOIN
    `prod -2134 -entdatalake -5938ee.hana_p0a_tenv_s4_internal.mara_current`                               AS mara
    ON mast.MATNR = mara.MATNR
  WHERE
    stko.STLTY = 'M'
    AND stko.VALID_TO = '9999 -12-31'
    AND mast.STLAN IN ('1','6')
    AND NOT (mara.MTART LIKE 'ZCWP%' AND makt.MAKTX LIKE 'PH -%')
),
--3) All unique keys
all_keys AS (
  SELECT DISTINCT PLANT_CODE , MATERIAL_NUM , MATERIAL_TYPE , BOM_TYPE , BOM_VERSION
    FROM bom_data
  UNION DISTINCT
  SELECT DISTINCT PLANT_CODE , MATERIAL_NUM , MATERIAL_TYPE , BOM_TYPE , BOM_VERSION
    FROM sap_data
),
--4) Flag mismatches
discrepancies AS (
  SELECT
    ak.PLANT_CODE ,
    ak.MATERIAL_NUM ,
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Component Level Page 763    
    ak.MATERIAL_NUM ,
    ak.MATERIAL_TYPE ,
    ak.BOM_TYPE ,
    ak.BOM_VERSION ,
    bd.RECIPE_ID ,
    bd.MATERIAL_DESCR ,
    sd.SAP_MATERIAL_DESCR ,
    sd.SAP_BOM_NUM ,
    CASE
      WHEN bd.RECIPE_ID IS NULL THEN 'Not on BOM Portal'
      WHEN sd.SAP_BOM_NUM IS NULL THEN 'Not on SAP'
      ELSE 'Match'
    END AS discrepancy
  FROM all_keys ak
  LEFT JOIN bom_data bd
    ON bd.PLANT_CODE     = ak.PLANT_CODE
   AND bd.MATERIAL_NUM   = ak.MATERIAL_NUM
   AND bd.MATERIAL_TYPE = ak.MATERIAL_TYPE
   AND bd.BOM_TYPE       = ak.BOM_TYPE
   AND bd.BOM_VERSION    = ak.BOM_VERSION
  LEFT JOIN sap_data sd
    ON sd.PLANT_CODE     = ak.PLANT_CODE
   AND sd.MATERIAL_NUM   = ak.MATERIAL_NUM
   AND sd.MATERIAL_TYPE = ak.MATERIAL_TYPE
   AND sd.BOM_TYPE       = ak.BOM_TYPE
   AND sd.BOM_VERSION    = ak.BOM_VERSION
)
--5) Return only the discrepancies, with both material descriptions
SELECT
  ROW_NUMBER () OVER (ORDER BY PLANT_CODE , MATERIAL_NUM , BOM_TYPE , BOM_VERSION ) AS 
row_id ,
  ANY_VALUE (RECIPE_ID )           AS recipe_id ,
  PLANT_CODE ,
  MATERIAL_NUM ,
  COALESCE (ANY_VALUE (MATERIAL_DESCR ), ANY_VALUE (SAP_MATERIAL_DESCR )) AS material_descr ,
  MATERIAL_TYPE ,
  BOM_TYPE ,
  BOM_VERSION ,
  ANY_VALUE (SAP_BOM_NUM )         AS sap_bom_number ,
  discrepancy
FROM discrepancies
WHERE discrepancy <> 'Match'
GROUP BY PLANT_CODE , MATERIAL_NUM , MATERIAL_TYPE , BOM_TYPE , BOM_VERSION , discrepancy
ORDER BY PLANT_CODE , MATERIAL_NUM , BOM_TYPE , BOM_VERSION ;
And add the following: 
sap_data AS (
  --Isolate PI05 step data for throughput and crewing
  WITH pi05_step AS (
    SELECT
      plpo.plnnr , --Recipe group number
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Component Level Page 764    
      plpo.plnnr , --Recipe group number
      plpo.plnty , --Recipe type
      plpo.werks , --Plant
      plpo.bmsch AS PI05_Throughput , --Throughput value from PI05 step
      plpo.vgw03 AS PI05_Crewing --Crewing value from PI05 step
    FROM `bigquery_prod_2434_entdataingest_05104f_s4hana_internal.plpo_current` plpo
    WHERE plpo.steus = 'PI05' --Only PI05 control key
      AND plpo.valid_to = '9999 -12-31' --Current valid records
      AND plpo.loekz IS NULL --Not logically deleted
      AND plpo.plnty = '2' --Only include routing (type 2)
      AND plpo.datuv = (
        SELECT MAX (plpo2.datuv ) --Only latest valid -from date
        FROM `bigquery_prod_2434_entdataingest_05104f_s4hana_internal.plpo_current` plpo2
        WHERE plpo2.plnnr = plpo.plnnr
          AND plpo2.plnty = plpo.plnty
          AND plpo2.werks = plpo.werks
          AND plpo2.steus = 'PI05'
          AND plpo2.valid_to = '9999 -12-31'
          AND plpo2.loekz IS NULL
      )
So that we can get throughput and crewing, 
Then just like the first reconciliation query I want to find where first there are discrepancies where the 
throughput or  crewing from SAP does not equal the throughput or crewing from BOM portal. 
So basically first the it should say Not on SAP Not On BOM for the material, then match vs mismatch for 
throughput and crewing
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Component Level Page 765    
--Define a Common Table Expression (CTE) to extract BOM data from internal MySQL sources
WITH bom_data AS (
  SELECT
    r.RECIPE_ID AS RecipeID ,  --Unique identifier for the recipe
    p.PLANT_CODE AS PlantCode ,  --Plant code from the plant table
    r.BOM_TYPE AS BOMType ,  --BOM type (e.g., production or finance)
    --Calculate SAP version based on BOM type and pad it to 2 digits
    LPAD (
      CAST (
        CASE
          WHEN LOWER (r.BOM_TYPE )= 'production' THEN COALESCE (r.SAP_VERSION_NUM , 0) + 31
          WHEN LOWER (r.BOM_TYPE )= 'finance' THEN COALESCE (r.SAP_VERSION_NUM , 0) + 1
          ELSE NULL
        END AS STRING
      ), 2, '0'
    ) AS SAPVersion ,
    --Pad material number to 18 digits
    LPAD (m.MATERIAL_NUM , 18, '0') AS Primary_Material_Padded ,
    m.MATERIAL_TYPE ,  --Material type
    m.MATERIAL_DESCR ,  --Material description
    r.THROUGHPUT_QTY AS Throughput ,  --Throughput quantity from BOM
    r.CREW_QTY AS Crewing   --Crewing quantity from BOM
  FROM `mysql_bompdb_prod_bom_mysql_restricted_confidential.recipe_current` r
  --Join to get plant -material relationship
  INNER JOIN `mysql_bom_mysql_bom_mysql_internal.plant_material_xref_current` pmx ON 
r.PLANT_MATERIAL_ID = pmx.PLANT_MATERIAL_ID
  --Join to get plant details
  INNER JOIN `mysql_bom_mysql_bom_mysql_internal.plant_current` p ON pmx.PLANT_ID = 
p.PLANT_ID
  --Join to get material details
  INNER JOIN `mysql_bom_mysql_bom_mysql_internal.material_current` m ON pmx.MATERIAL_ID = 
m.MATERIAL_ID
  --Join to get formulation indicator
  INNER JOIN `mysql_bom_mysql_bom_mysql_internal.recipe_formulation_xref_current` rfx ON 
r.RECIPE_ID = rfx.RECIPE_ID
  WHERE r.VALID_END_DATE IS NULL   --Only include active recipes
    AND rfx.INVN_PT_IND = 1  --Only include inventory point indicators
    AND NOT (m.MATERIAL_TYPE LIKE 'ZCWP%' AND m.MATERIAL_DESCR LIKE 'PH -%')  --Exclude certain 
material types
),
--Define a CTE to extract SAP data
sap_data AS (
  --Nested CTE to get the latest valid PI05 step data
  WITH pi05_step AS (
    SELECT
      plpo.plnnr ,  --Routing group
      plpo.plnty ,  --Routing type
      plpo.werks ,  --Plant
      plpo.bmsch AS PI05_Throughput ,  --Throughput from SAP
      plpo.vgw03 AS PI05_Crewing   --Crewing from SAP
    FROM `bigquery_prod_2434_entdataingest_05104f_s4hana_internal.plpo_current` plpo
    WHERE plpo.steus = 'PI05'   --Only PI05 control key
      AND plpo.valid_to = '9999 -12-31'  --Valid records
      AND plpo.loekz IS NULL   --Not deleted
      AND plpo.plnty = '2'  --Only routing type 2
      AND plpo.datuv = (  --Get the most recent valid -from date
        SELECT MAX (plpo2.datuv )
        FROM `bigquery_prod_2434_entdataingest_05104f_s4hana_internal.plpo_current` plpo2
        WHERE plpo2.plnnr = plpo.plnnr
          AND plpo2.plnty = plpo.plnty
          AND plpo2.werks = plpo.werks
          AND plpo2.steus = 'PI05'
          AND plpo2.valid_to = '9999 -12-31'
          AND plpo2.loekz IS NULL
      )
  )
  --Main SAP data extraction
  SELECT 
    mapl.werks AS Plant ,  --Plant
    LPAD (mapl.matnr , 18, '0') AS Material_Number_Padded ,  --Padded material number
    mapl.plnnr AS Recipe_Group ,  --Routing group
    mapl.plnal AS Recipe_Group_Counter ,  --Routing group counter
    plmz.stlnr AS BOM_Number ,  --BOM number
    LPAD (plmz.stlal , 2, '0') AS BOM_Alt ,  --BOM alternative padded
    mkal.verid as Prod_Version ,  --Production version
    pi05_step.PI05_Throughput AS Throughput ,  --Throughput from SAP
    pi05_step.PI05_Crewing AS Crewing   --Crewing from SAP
  FROM `bigquery_prod_2434_entdataingest_05104f_s4hana_internal.mapl_current` mapl
  --Join to BOM header
  INNER JOIN `bigquery_prod_2434_entdataingest_05104f_s4hana_internal.plmz_current` plmz 
    ON mapl.plnty = plmz.plnty AND mapl.plnnr = plmz.plnnr AND mapl.plnal = plmz.plnal 
  --Join to PI05 step data
  INNER JOIN pi05_step 
    ON mapl.plnnr = pi05_step.plnnr AND mapl.plnty = pi05_step.plnty AND mapl.werks = pi05
_step.werks
  --Join to production version
  INNER JOIN `bigquery_prod_2434_entdataingest_05104f_s4hana_confidential.mkal_current` mkal 
    ON mkal.matnr = mapl.matnr AND mkal.werks = mapl.WERKS AND mkal.bdatu = '9999 -12-31'
  WHERE mapl.plnty = '2'  --Routing type 2
    AND mapl.valid_to = '9999 -12-31'  --Valid records
    AND plmz.valid_to = '9999 -12-31'
    AND plmz.stlty = 'M'  --BOM type M
    AND mapl.LOEKZ IS NULL   --Not deleted
    AND plmz.loekz IS NULL
),
--Reconciliation CTE to compare BOM and SAP data
reconciliation AS (
  SELECT
    b.RecipeID ,
    s.Recipe_Group ,
    s.Recipe_Group_Counter ,
    s.BOM_Number ,
    b.BOMType ,
    b.SAPVersion AS BOM_Version ,
    b.MATERIAL_TYPE ,
    b.Primary_Material_Padded AS Material_Number ,
    b.MATERIAL_DESCR AS Description ,
    b.Throughput AS Throughput_BOM ,
    s.Throughput AS Throughput_SAP ,
    --Check if throughput values match within a tolerance
    CASE
      WHEN ABS (b.Throughput -s.Throughput ) > 0.001 THEN 'Not Matched' ELSE 'Matched'
    END AS Throughput_Check ,
    b.Crewing AS Crewing_BOM ,
    s.Crewing AS Crewing_SAP ,
    --Check if crewing values match within a tolerance
    CASE
      WHEN ABS (b.Crewing -s.Crewing ) > 0.001 THEN 'Not Matched' ELSE 'Matched'
    END AS Crewing_Check ,
    --Determine the type of discrepancy
    CASE
      WHEN s.Material_Number_Padded IS NULL THEN 'Missing in SAP'
      WHEN b.Primary_Material_Padded IS NULL THEN 'Missing in BOM' 
      WHEN b.Throughput IS NOT NULL AND s.Throughput IS NOT NULL AND ABS (b.Throughput -
s.Throughput ) > 0.001 
           AND b.Crewing IS NOT NULL AND s.Crewing IS NOT NULL AND ABS (b.Crewing -s.Crewing ) > 0.001 
THEN 'Throughput, Crewing'
      WHEN b.Throughput IS NOT NULL AND s.Throughput IS NOT NULL AND ABS (b.Throughput -
s.Throughput ) > 0.001 THEN 'Throughput'
      WHEN b.Crewing IS NOT NULL AND s.Crewing IS NOT NULL AND ABS (b.Crewing -s.Crewing ) > 0.001 
THEN 'Crewing'
      ELSE 'No Discrepancies Exist'
    END AS Discrepancies
  FROM bom_data b
  --Left join to retain all BOM records and match with SAP
  LEFT JOIN sap_data s 
    ON b.PlantCode = s.Plant
    AND b.SAPVersion = s.BOM_Alt
    AND b.SAPVersion = RIGHT (s.Prod_Version , 2)
    AND b.Primary_Material_Padded = s.Material_Number_Padded
)
--Final selection: filter and deduplicate discrepancies
SELECT *
FROM (
  SELECT *,
         --Assign row numbers to group by material, BOM type, and versionWhat the Query Accomplishes
Copilot
This SQL query performs a detailed reconciliation between two systems —a BOM (Bill of Materials) 
system and SAP —to identify discrepancies in throughput and crewing values for materials used in 
manufacturing processes. The goal is to ensure that both systems are aligned in terms of how they 
define and quantify production processes.
 Step -by-Step Breakdown
1. bom_data CTE: Extract BOM System Data
This section pulls data from a MySQL -based BOM system. It focuses on active recipes and materials that 
are relevant for inventory and production.
Recipe and Plant Info: Extracts the recipe ID and plant code.
BOM Type Handling: Differentiates between "production" and "finance" BOMs. It calculates a version 
number (SAPVersion) by adding:
+31 for production BOMs
+1 for finance BOMs
Material Info: Pads the material number to 18 digits (SAP standard), and includes material type and 
description.
Performance Metrics: Includes throughput and crewing quantities from the BOM system.
Filters:
Only active recipes (VALID_END_DATE IS NULL)
Only inventory point indicators (INVN_PT_IND = 1)
Excludes materials with type starting with ZCWP and description starting with PH -
2. sap_data CTE: Extract SAP System Data
This section pulls data from SAP tables to get the most recent and valid routing and BOM information.
Nested CTE: pi05_step
Extracts step -level data for routing steps with control key PI05, which typically represents a standard 
production step.
Filters for:
Valid records (valid_to = '9999 -12-31')
Not deleted (loekz IS NULL)
Routing type 2
Most recent valid -from date (datuv)
Main SAP Data Extraction
Joins routing (mapl), BOM (plmz), and production version (mkal) data.
Pads material numbers and BOM alternatives to match formatting.
Pulls throughput and crewing values from the pi05_step CTE.
Filters for:
Routing type 2
Valid and active records
BOM type M (likely manufacturing)
3. reconciliation CTE: Compare BOM and SAP Data
This section performs the core comparison between the BOM and SAP datasets.
Joins the two datasets on:
Plant code
SAP version (must match both BOM alternative and last 2 digits of production version)
Material number
Compares:
Throughput values (Throughput_BOM vs Throughput_SAP)
Crewing values (Crewing_BOM vs Crewing_SAP)
Tolerance: Uses a threshold of 0.001 to determine if values are considered "matched".
Discrepancy Classification:
'Missing in SAP': No matching SAP record
'Missing in BOM': No matching BOM record
'Throughput', 'Crewing', or 'Throughput, Crewing': Indicates which values differ
'No Discrepancies Exist': Everything matches
4. Final Query: Filter and Deduplicate Discrepancies
This final section filters and deduplicates the results:
Filters out:
Records with no discrepancies
Records missing in either system
Uses ROW_NUMBER() to:
Partition by material number, BOM type, and version
Keep only the first discrepancy per group (based on RecipeID)
Final Output
The result is a clean, deduplicated list of discrepancies between the BOM and SAP systems, showing only 
the first instance of each unique discrepancy per material/version/type combination. This is useful for:
Auditing data consistency
Identifying integration issues
Supporting master data governance
Would you like help visualizing this reconciliation logic or turning it into a dashboard or report?Design Guide (RD)
Here is a complete Power BI Design Guide tailored for your Throughput & Crewing Discrepancies page, 
designed to align with the existing discrepancy report pages for BOM vs. SAP data.
 Power BI Design Guide
 Page: “Throughput & Crewing Discrepancies”
 Purpose
This page highlights quantitative mismatches in Throughput and Crewing between the BOM Portal 
database and SAP. These discrepancies impact cost models, labor planning, and production efficiency. It 
is an extension of the existing discrepancy reporting suite, which compares BOM record presence 
between systems.
  Data Source & Query Logic
Data Source : Use the new query provided (named throughput_crewing_discrepancies_query ) •
Data Type : Record -level comparison with derived fields indicating: •
Throughput_Check•
Crewing_Check•
Discrepancies (summary field: Throughput, Crewing, or both) •
 Data Model Notes
Data Source Table : Use the output of the reconciliation query directly as a table or define it as a view in 
your semantic layer.•
Primary Key / Granularity : Combination of Material_Number , Plant , BOM_Version , BOMType •
Important Fields : •
RecipeID•
Plant•
Material_Number•
Description•
BOMType•
BOM_Version•
Throughput_BOM , Throughput_SAP , Throughput_Check •
Crewing_BOM , Crewing_SAP , Crewing_Check •
Discrepancies•
 Layout & UX Design
Maintain visual and navigational consistency with the previous two pages:
  Sec on   –  igh  evel Summary
Visualization : Two KPI Cards side -by-side
✅# Throughput Discrepancies•
✅# Crewing Discrepancies•
Use filters on the Discrepancies column to count ‘Throughput’, ‘Crewing’, or both.
 Section 2 –Bar or Column Chart
Title: “Top Discrepancies by Material”
X-Axis : Material Number or Description •
Y-Axis : Absolute difference in Throughput or Crewing•
Use Tooltips to show: •
BOM vs SAP values•
Plant•
BOM Version•
Discrepancy type•
 Section 3 –Data Table
Table Title : “Throughput & Crewing Mismatch Detail”
Columns:•
Plant•
Material_Number•
Description•
BOMType•
BOM_Version•
Throughput_BOM•
Throughput_SAP•
Throughput_Check•
Crewing_BOM•
Crewing_SAP•
Crewing_Check•
Discrepancies•
Add conditional formatting : •
Highlight rows where:•
Throughput_Check = ‘ ot Matched’ (orange)•
Crewing_Check = ‘ ot Matched’ (red)•
Enable export functionality for business analysts. •
 Filters & Slicers (Left Pane)
Maintain consistency with original pages:
 Plant (Plant ) •
 BOM Type (BOMType ) •
 Discrepancy Type (Discrepancies ) •
 Search by Material ( Material_Number or Description ) •
 Page Formatting Notes
Page Name : Throughput & Crewing Discrepancies •
Font/Color : Match theme from original pages (clean, readable) •
Interactivity : •
Clicking a bar in the chart should filter the detail table below . •
Sync slicers across all pages (especially if users navigate between tabs frequently).•
 Testing / QA Checklist
Validate row count matches query output•
Check tooltip values and aggregation logic•
Ensure filters apply correctly to each visual•
Test export/download function for the table•
Confirm new page doesn’t affect performance of existing pages•
✅Deployment Notes
Publish to same workspace as original report.•
Page should follow tab sequence:•
Overview1.
Detailed Discrepancies2.
Throughput & Crewing Discrepancies3.
Document query source and logic in the data model for future audit.•
Let me know if you'd like a mockup in Figma or Power BI or if you want the layout embedded in a .pbix
skeleton.Thanks, Greg —based on the current design and layout of your BOM Portal –SAP Reconciliation report, 
here’s a Power BI design guide for the new “Throughput   Crewing Discrepancies” page that matches 
the visual language and structure of your existing report.
 Power BI Design Guide
 Page Title: Throughput & Crewing Discrepancies
Follows the design system of BOM Portal –SAP Reconciliation
 Page Objective
Surface mismatches in Throughput and Crewing values between BOM Portal and SAP for valid, active 
recipes. Discrepancies are categorized by type (Throughput, Crewing, or Both), helping stakeholders 
pinpoint systemic issues in cost or labor alignment.
 Report Layout
 Filters (Top Banner –Same as Existing Pages)
Filter Name Field Source
Plant Plant
Material Material_Number
Material Type MATERIAL_TYPE
BOM Type BOMType
Version BOM_Version
Discrepancy Type Discrepancies
Use the same card style, colors, and fonts.
 KPI Cards (Top Center)
Metric Field Logic
Total Discrepancies Count where Discrepancies != 'No Discrepancies Exist'
Throughput Mismatches Count where Discrepancies = 'Throughput' or 'Throughput, Crewing'
Crewing Mismatches Count where Discrepancies = 'Crewing' or 'Throughput, Crewing'
 Use matching formatting and alignment to the "Total Discrepancies / Not on BOM / Not on SAP" 
cards on the existing page.
 Visuals Section
                 “Discrepancy Count by Material Type ”
Field Type
Axis (X) MATERIAL_TYPE
Value (Y) Count of Discrepancies
Legend (Optional) Discrepancies (grouped by: Throughput, Crewing, Both)
 Match bar style with the “Count of discrepancy by Material Type” chart on Page  .
              “Discrepancies by Plant ”
| Axis (Y) | Plant |
| Axis (X) | Count of discrepancies |
| Legend | Discrepancies (stacked or side -by-side)
 Identical layout and scale as “Discrepancies by Plant” on Page 2.
                       “Discrepancy Type Propor on ”
| Value | Count of records grouped by Discrepancies |
| Legend | Discrepancies : Throughput, Crewing, Throughput & Crewing
  abel inside the pie slices just like the “Discrepancies Type Proportion” chart.
          “Detailed Throughput & Crewing Mismatches ”
Column Name Field
Row_ID ROW_NUMBER() logic
Recipe ID RecipeID
Plant Plant
Material Material_Number
Description Description
BOM Type BOMType
BOM Version BOM_Version
Throughput (BOM) Throughput_BOM
Throughput (SAP) Throughput_SAP
Crewing (BOM) Crewing_BOM
Crewing (SAP) Crewing_SAP
Discrepancy Type Discrepancies
✨Use alternating row colors, sort by plant/material, and highlight discrepancies via conditional 
formatting:
 Red for 'Not Matched' in Throughput•
 Yellow for 'Not Matched' in Crewing•
Orange for not matched in either•
 Visual & UX Alignment
Element Style Guide
Font Match existing report (likely Segoe UI or default theme)
Theme Color Tyson Red + Yellow + White background
Interactivity Click bar to filter the detail table
Slicer Sync Global slicers shared with other tabs
Tooltip Design Show BOM & SAP values + delta when hovering on charts
 QA & Testing Checklist
Verify query output matches chart counts•
Validate discrepancy logic with a known mismatched material•
Confirm all visuals respond to slicers•
Test responsiveness in the service view•
Review performance and optimize filters if slow•
 Deployment Notes
File Name : BOM_Reconciliation.pbix •
Page Name : Throughput & Crewing •
Page Order : Place after Detailed Discrepancies page •
Description (Tooltip/Notes) : “Compares Throughput and Crewing values between SAP and BOM Portal 
for each material -plant -version.”•
Let me know if you'd like a Figma or Canva mockup, .pbix wireframe, or want to embed this directly in 
your team's Power BI documentation system.Final Throughput/Crewing Query
Wednesday, July 09, 2025 10:14 AM
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Component Level Page 766    
         --Assign row numbers to group by material, BOM type, and version
         ROW_NUMBER () OVER (
           PARTITION BY Material_Number , BOMType , BOM_Version
           ORDER BY RecipeID
         ) AS rn
    FROM reconciliation
  WHERE Discrepancies != 'No Discrepancies Exist'
    AND Discrepancies != 'Missing in SAP'
    AND Discrepancies != 'Missing in BOM'
)
WHERE rn= 1;
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Component Level Page 767    
SAP Validation of BOM & Recipe Info in GCP
Query: BOM and Recipe INFO with Item Category
Plant Code, Recipe Group, Recipe Group Counter, BOM Number, Alt Bom, BOM Usage, Primary 
Material Number, Primary UoM, Primary Material Description, Throughput and Crewing based on 
control key PI05, item number, component material number, component description, usage 
percent, scrap percent (from assembly, component and operation scrap will be added in a later 
iteration), Formulation Quantity, Component UoM and Item Category (Stock vs NonStock)Where we are at
Thursday, July 10, 2025 1:31 PM
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Component Level Page 768    
Business Requirements Document (BRD)
Project Title: Component Level Reconciliation between SAP and BOM Portal
Document Control
Document Version: 1.0 •
Document Status: Draft •
Date: [Insert Date]•
Author: [Insert Author Name] •
Reviewed by: [Insert Reviewer Name] •
Approved by: [Insert Approver Name] •
Table of Contents
Introduction 
1.1 Purpose•
1.2 Scope•
1.3 Definitions, Acronyms, and Abbreviations•
1.4 References•1.
Business Objectives 
2.1 Background•
2.2 Business Goals•2.
Stakeholders 
3.1 Project Sponsor•
3.2 Project Manager•
3.3 Key Stakeholders•3.
Requirements 
4.1 Functional Requirements•
4.2 Non -Functional Requirements •
4.3 Data Requirements•
4.4 User Requirements•4.
Assumptions and Constraints 
5.1 Assumptions•
5.2 Constraints•5.
Risks 
6.1 Risk Identification•
6.2 Risk Mitigation•6.
Appendices 
7.1 Glossary•
7.2 Document Revision History•7.
1. Introduction
1.1 Purpose
The purpose of this document is to outline the business requirements for the component level reconciliation 
between SAP and the BOM Portal. This reconciliation aims to ensure data consistency and accuracy in 
throughput, crewing, and component -level data.
1.2 Scope
This BRD covers the requirements for the reconciliation process, including data sources, field mappings, 
composite key logic, and reconciliation logic. It does not cover the implementation details or technical Thursday, July 10, 2025 3:12 PM
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Component Level Page 769    
composite key logic, and reconciliation logic. It does not cover the implementation details or technical 
specifications.
1.3 Definitions, Acronyms, and Abbreviations
SAP: Systems, Applications, and Products in Data Processing•
BOM: Bill of Materials•
BRD: Business Requirements Document•
PBI: Power BI•
1.4 References
Component Reconciliation Report SAP and BOM Portal.docx•
Component -Level Reconciliation Data.docx •
SAP to BOM Portal Reconciliation Requirement.docx•
2. Business Objectives
2.1 Background
Tyson Foods uses SAP for enterprise resource planning and the BOM Portal for managing bill of materials. 
Discrepancies between these systems can lead to operational inefficiencies and inaccuracies in reporting.
2.2 Business Goals
Ensure data consistency between SAP and BOM Portal.•
Improve accuracy in throughput and crewing data.•
Enhance decision -making through reliable component -level data. •
3. Stakeholders
3.1 Project Sponsor
Name: [Insert Sponsor Name] •
Role: Provides overall direction and funding for the project.•
3.2 Project Manager
Name: [Insert Project Manager Name] •
Role: Manages the project timeline, resources, and deliverables.•
3.3 Key Stakeholders
SAP Team 
Role: Provides access to SAP data and supports integration efforts.••
BOM Portal Team 
Role: Provides access to BOM Portal data and supports integration efforts.••
Data Analysts 
Role: Analyze data discrepancies and validate reconciliation results.••
IT Support Team 
Role: Ensures system availability and resolves technical issues.••
4. Requirements
4.1 Functional Requirements
FR1: Data Extraction
Description: Develop a process to extract component -level data from SAP and BOM Portal. •
Details: 
Source Systems: SAP, BOM Portal •
Frequency: Daily •
Data Fields: Material ID, Plant, BOM Version, Throughput, Crewing, Component Details ••
FR2: Field Mappings
Description: Implement field mappings between SAP and BOM Portal data. •
Details: 
Mapping Document: Define a mapping document that specifies how fields in SAP correspond to 
fields in the BOM Portal.•
Example Mapping: 
SAP Material ID -> BOM Portal Material ID •
SAP Plant -> BOM Portal Plant •
SAP BOM Version -> BOM Portal BOM Version •••
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Component Level Page 770    
SAP BOM Version -> BOM Portal BOM Version •
FR3: Composite Key Logic
Description: Define composite key logic for identifying unique records. •
Details: 
Composite Key Components: Material ID, Plant, BOM Version •
Example: CONCAT(Material ID, Plant, BOM Version) ••
FR4: Reconciliation Logic
Description: Create reconciliation logic to compare data from both systems. •
Details: 
Comparison Criteria: Match records based on composite key and compare throughput, crewing, 
and component details.•
Discrepancy Identification: Highlight records with mismatched data. ••
FR5: Discrepancy Reporting
Description: Generate discrepancy reports highlighting inconsistencies. •
Details: 
Report Format: CSV, Excel, PDF •
Report Fields: Composite Key, Field Name, SAP Value, BOM Portal Value, Discrepancy Type ••
4.2 Non -Functional Requirements
NFR1: Performance
Description: The reconciliation process should run daily. •
Details: 
Execution Time: Complete within 2 hours •
Data Volume: Handle up to 1 million records per run ••
NFR2: Scalability
Description: The system should handle large volumes of data efficiently. •
Details: 
Scalability Plan: Implement scalable data processing techniques such as parallel processing. ••
NFR3: Security
Description: Ensure data security and compliance with Tyson's data governance policies. •
Details: 
Data Encryption: Encrypt data in transit and at rest. •
Access Control: Implement role -based access control. ••
4.3 Data Requirements
DR1: Data Sources
Description: Data sources include SAP tables and BOM Portal databases. •
Details: 
SAP Tables: [List of relevant SAP tables] •
BOM Portal Databases: [List of relevant BOM Portal databases] ••
DR2: Field Mappings
Description: Field mappings should cover throughput, crewing, and component -level data. •
Details: 
Mapping Document: Maintain an up -to-date mapping document. •
Example Fields: 
SAP Throughput -> BOM Portal Throughput •
SAP Crewing -> BOM Portal Crewing •••
DR3: Composite Keys
Description: Composite keys will be based on material ID, plant, and BOM version. •
Details: 
Key Definition: CONCAT(Material ID, Plant, BOM Version) ••
4.4 User Requirements
UR1: Reconciliation Reports
Description: Users should be able to view reconciliation reports via a dashboard. •
Details: 
Dashboard Tool: Power BI ••
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Component Level Page 771    
Dashboard Tool: Power BI •
Report Access: Role -based access to reports •
UR2: Notifications
Description: Users should receive notifications for significant discrepancies. •
Details: 
Notification Method: Email, SMS •
Thresholds: Define thresholds for significant discrepancies (e.g., >10% variance) ••
5. Assumptions and Constraints
5.1 Assumptions
A1:Data extraction tools are available and functional.•
A2:Stakeholders will provide necessary access to data sources.•
A3:The reconciliation process can be automated.•
5.2 Constraints
C1:Limited by existing data integration capabilities.•
C2:Dependent on the availability of SAP and BOM Portal systems.•
C3:Compliance with Tyson's data governance policies.•
6. Risks
6.1 Risk Identification
R1:Data extraction failures due to system downtime.•
R2:Inaccurate field mappings leading to incorrect reconciliation.•
R3:Performance issues with large data volumes.•
R4:Security breaches compromising sensitive data.•
6.2 Risk Mitigation
RM1: Implement automated alerts for extraction failures.•
RM2: Conduct thorough testing of field mappings before deployment.•
RM3: Optimize data processing techniques for performance.•
RM4: Implement robust security measures including encryption and access control.•
7. Appendices
7.1 Glossary
Reconciliation: The process of ensuring data consistency between two systems. •
Composite Key: A combination of two or more columns used to uniquely identify a record. •
Throughput: The amount of material or items passing through a system or process. •
Crewing: The allocation of personnel to tasks or shifts. •
7.2 Document Revision History
Version Date Description Author
1.0 [Insert Date] Initial Draft [Insert Author Name]
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Component Level Page 772    
Further Considerations for PowerBI Report
Remove leading zeroes from all final output numbers including BOM Number and Material Number
Add Plant Code
Next Pages:
Current Design
Component Material Numbers
Usage
Quantity
UoM
Instead of detailed discrepancies 7/17/2025
Friday, July 11, 2025 9:42 AM
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Component Level Page 773    
Purpose
This report ensures that Bill of Materials (BOM) data in the BOM Portal aligns with the official source of 
record in SAP. Accurate alignment between these systems is critical for:
Costing accuracy•
Production planning•
Compliance and audit readiness•
What We Did
Pulled BOM data from two sources : •
BOM Portal : Internal system used for BOM management and costing. •
SAP (CS03) : Corporate ERP system, source of truth for BOM structures. •
Compared data at two levels:•
Primary BOM level : Checks if BOM versions exist in both systems for each material and plant. •
Component level : Validates that all materials inside a BOM match between systems. •
Key Highlights
Excluded inactive or irrelevant BOMs (e.g., placeholder materials).•
Normalized BOM version logic so both systems align for comparison.•
Identified discrepancies where:•
A BOM exists in one system but not the other . •
Components are missing from one system . •
Why It Matters
Eliminates risk of incorrect production or finance reporting due to BOM mismatches.•
Supports faster BOM approvals and reduces manual error -checking . •
Improves transparency for cost variance analysis and inventory accuracy . •
Next Steps
Share discrepancy report with business teams.•
Prioritize resolution of high -impact mismatches (e.g., production -critical BOMs). •
Implement regular reconciliation process to keep systems aligned. •
For Andre: 
Goal
Build a reconciliation framework to identify and track discrepancies between BOM Portal and SAP for 
both header -level BOMs and component -level details .
What the Query DoesComponent Level Explanation
Monday, July 28, 2025 4:45 PM
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Component Level Page 774    
What the Query Does
Extracts BOM Data1.
From BOM Portal: Active Production & Finance BOMs tied to inventory points. •
From SAP (CS03): Valid BOMs (effective & not flagged for deletion). •
Normalizes BOM Versioning2.
Applies logic to match version formats between systems.•
Compares Across Two Dimensions3.
Primary -Level Check: Does a BOM exist for the same material, plant, and version in both systems? •
Component -Level Check: Do all components match for that BOM? •
Outputs4.
Consolidated discrepancy list:•
Primary mismatches (filtered to exclude cases missing entirely from one system).•
Component mismatches with descriptions for BOM alignment.•
Value for Product
Visibility: Provides a data -driven view of where and why BOM data diverges. •
Efficiency: Reduces manual SAP vs. Portal comparison efforts. •
Quality: Drives data consistency for downstream processes like costing and production. •
Key Metrics to Monitor
Number of mismatched BOMs by Plant , Material Type , BOM Type . •
% of component -level discrepancies per BOM type. •
Time to resolution for identified mismatches.•
Next Steps for Product Roadmap
Integrate discrepancy reporting into BOM Portal UI for real -time alerts. •
Automate monthly reconciliation runs and link with change management workflows . •
Explore API-based syncs or validations during BOM creation/editing. •
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Component Level Page 775    
Step 1: BOM Portal Data ( bom_data )
sql
CopyEdit
bom_data AS (
  SELECT
    r.RECIPE_ID,
    p.PLANT_CODE,
    m.MATERIAL_NUM,
    m.MATERIAL_DESCR,
    m.MATERIAL_TYPE,
    r.BOM_TYPE,
    CASE
      WHEN r.BOM_TYPE = 'Production' THEN CAST(r.SAP_VERSION_NUM + 31 AS 
STRING)
      WHEN r.BOM_TYPE = 'Finance'    THEN LPAD(CAST(r.SAP_VERSION_NUM + 1 AS 
STRING), 2, '0')
      ELSE r.BOM_TYPE
    END AS BOM_VERSION,
    DATE(r.VALID_START_DATE) AS VALID_START_DATE
  ...
Pulls BOMs from BOM Portal for recipes that: •
Are active ( VALID_END_DATE IS NULL ) •
Are for Production or Finance •
Have at least one inventory point ( rfx.INVN_PT_IND = 1 ) •
Transforms SAP version numbers from BOM Portal into comparable BOM_VERSION format. •
Joins with Plant , Material , and mapping tables to get descriptive fields. •
Step 2: SAP BOM Data ( sap_data )
sql
CopyEdit
sap_data AS (
  SELECT
    mast.WERKS AS PLANT_CODE,
    REGEXP_REPLACE(mast.MATNR, r'^0+', '') AS MATERIAL_NUM,
    makt.MAKTX AS SAP_MATERIAL_DESCR,
    mara.MTART AS MATERIAL_TYPE,
    CASE mast.STLAN
      WHEN '1' THEN 'Production'
      WHEN '6' THEN 'Finance'
    END AS BOM_TYPE,
    mast.STLAL AS BOM_VERSION,
    DATE(stko.DATUV) AS VALID_START_DATE,
    stko.STLNR AS SAP_BOM_NUM
  ...
Pulls BOM header data from SAP tables : •
Filters only valid BOMs ( VALID_TO = '9999 -12-31') •
Includes Plant , Material , Material Description , and BOM Type . •Technical Explanaiton
Monday, July 28, 2025 4:46 PM
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Component Level Page 776    
Includes Plant , Material , Material Description , and BOM Type . •
Removes leading zeros from material numbers for alignment with BOM Portal.•
Step 3: Combine All Unique Keys ( all_keys )
sql
CopyEdit
all_keys AS (
  SELECT DISTINCT PLANT_CODE, MATERIAL_NUM, MATERIAL_TYPE, BOM_TYPE, 
BOM_VERSION FROM bom_data
  UNION DISTINCT
  SELECT DISTINCT PLANT_CODE, MATERIAL_NUM, MATERIAL_TYPE, BOM_TYPE, 
BOM_VERSION FROM sap_data
),
Creates a master list of unique BOM identifiers (Plant, Material, BOM Type, BOM Version) from both 
systems.•
Ensures we can compare apples -to-apples across systems. •
Step 4: Find Primary BOM Discrepancies ( primary_discrepancies )
sql
CopyEdit
primary_discrepancies AS (
  SELECT
    ak.PLANT_CODE,
    ak.MATERIAL_NUM,
    ak.MATERIAL_TYPE,
    ak.BOM_TYPE,
    ak.BOM_VERSION,
    bd.RECIPE_ID,
    bd.MATERIAL_DESCR,
    sd.SAP_MATERIAL_DESCR,
    sd.SAP_BOM_NUM,
    CASE
      WHEN bd.RECIPE_ID IS NULL THEN 'Not on BOM Portal'
      WHEN sd.SAP_BOM_NUM IS NULL THEN 'Not on SAP'
      ELSE 'Match'
    END AS discrepancy
Joins all_keys back to both sources to check: •
Exists in BOM Portal only → Not on SAP •
Exists in SAP only → Not on BOM Portal •
Exists in both → Match •
Step 5: BOM Portal Component Data ( bom_component_data )
Pulls component -level details from BOM Portal: •
Primary Material → BOM Header •
Component Material → Item in BOM •
Filters active BOMs ( VALID_END_DATE IS NULL ) •
Step 6: SAP Component Data ( sap_component_data )
Similar logic but from SAP tables:•
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Component Level Page 777    
Similar logic but from SAP tables:•
Maps routing relationships to components using PLMZ/STPO.•
Step 7: Merge All Components ( all_component_combinations )
Creates a union of all (Plant, Primary Material, BOM Version, Component Material) pairs from both 
systems.•
Ensures full coverage for component comparison.•
Step 8: Component Discrepancies ( component_discrepancies )
sql
CopyEdit
CASE
  WHEN bd.COMPONENT_MATERIAL IS NULL THEN 'Not on BOM Portal'
  WHEN sd.COMPONENT_MATERIAL IS NULL THEN 'Not on SAP'
Identifies mismatched components:•
If exists in SAP only →  ot on BOM Portal •
If exists in BOM Portal only →  ot on SAP •
Step 9: Combine Discrepancies ( final_discrepancies )
sql
CopyEdit
final_discrepancies AS (
  SELECT ... FROM primary_discrepancies WHERE discrepancy NOT IN ('Match', 
'Not on BOM Portal', 'Not on SAP')
  UNION ALL
  SELECT ... FROM component_discrepancies WHERE discrepancy <> 'Match'
)
Filters out fully missing BOMs (already known issue). •
Keeps only actual differences that need review. •
Adds placeholder columns for consistent schema between primary and component discrepancies.•
Final SELECT
sql
CopyEdit
SELECT
  ROW_NUMBER() OVER (ORDER BY PLANT_CODE, MATERIAL_NUM, BOM_VERSION, 
COMPONENT_MATERIAL) AS row_id,
  *
FROM final_discrepancies
ORDER BY PLANT_CODE, MATERIAL_NUM, BOM_VERSION, COMPONENT_MATERIAL;
Adds a unique row number for reporting.•
Sorts by Plant → Material → Version → Component for readability. •
✅What the Query Accomplishes
Compares BOM structure between SAP and BOM Portal . •
Identifies:•
Primary BOM mismatches → BOM exists in both systems but differs in detail. •
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Component Level Page 778    
Primary BOM mismatches → BOM exists in both systems but differs in detail. •
Component mismatches → Components exist in one system but not the other. •
Produces a clean, combined discrepancy report with descriptive fields for analysis. •
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Component Level Page 779    
Here’s the full query set for SAP -only and BOM Portal -only components , written as standalone 
BigQuery queries with correct structure, dataset references, and optimized for performance:
✅5.1 SAP -Only Components
Purpose: Identify components that exist in SAP but do NOT exist in BOM Portal.
WITH sap_components AS ( SELECT DISTINCT mast.werks AS PLANT_CODE , 
REGEXP_REPLACE (mast.matnr , r'^0+' , '') AS PRIMARY_MATERIAL , REGEXP_REPLACE (stpo.idnrk , r'^0+' , '') 
AS COMPONENT_MATERIAL FROM `prod -2134 -entdatalake -5938ee.bigquery_prod_2434
_entdataingest_05104f_s4hana_internal.mast_current` mast JOIN `prod -2134 -
entdatalake -5938ee.bigquery_prod_2434_entdataingest_05104f_s4hana_confidential.stpo_current` 
stpo ON mast.stlnr = stpo.stlnr JOIN `prod -2134 -entdatalake -5938ee.bigquery_prod_2434
_entdataingest_05104f_s4hana_confidential.stko_current` stko ON mast.stlnr = stko.stlnr AND 
mast.stlal = stko.stlal WHERE stko.valid_to = '9999 -12-31' AND stpo.valid_to = '9999 -12-31' AND 
mast.stlan IN ('1','6')), bom_components AS ( SELECT DISTINCT p.PLANT_CODE , m.MATERIAL_NUM AS 
PRIMARY_MATERIAL , cm.MATERIAL_NUM AS COMPONENT_MATERIAL FROM `prod -2134 -
entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bompdb_prod_bom_mysql_restricted_confidential.recipe_current` r JOIN 
`prod -2134 -entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bom_mysql_bom_mysql_internal.plant_material_xref_current` 
pmx ON r.PLANT_MATERIAL_ID = pmx.PLANT_MATERIAL_ID JOIN `prod -2134 -
entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bom_mysql_bom_mysql_internal.plant_current` p ON pmx.PLANT_ID = 
p.PLANT_ID JOIN `prod -2134 -
entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bom_mysql_bom_mysql_internal.material_current` m ON 
pmx.MATERIAL_ID = m.MATERIAL_ID JOIN `prod -2134 -
entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bom_mysql_bom_mysql_internal.recipe_formulation_xref_current` rfx ON 
r.RECIPE_ID = rfx.RECIPE_ID JOIN `prod -2134 -
entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bompdb_prod_bom_mysql_restricted_confidential.formulation_step_curre
nt` fs ON rfx.FORMULATION_STEP_ID = fs.FORMULATION_STEP_ID JOIN `prod -2134 -
entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bompdb_prod_bom_mysql_restricted_confidential.step_component_group
_current` scg ON scg.FORMULATION_STEP_ID = fs.FORMULATION_STEP_ID JOIN `prod -2134 -
entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bompdb_prod_bom_mysql_restricted_confidential.step_component_curren
t` sc ON sc.STEP_COMPONENT_GROUP_ID = scg.STEP_COMPONENT_GROUP_ID JOIN `prod -2134 -
entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bom_mysql_bom_mysql_internal.plant_material_xref_current` cpmx ON 
sc.PLANT_MATERIAL_ID = cpmx.PLANT_MATERIAL_ID JOIN `prod -2134 -
entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bom_mysql_bom_mysql_internal.material_current` cm ON 
cpmx.MATERIAL_ID = cm.MATERIAL_ID WHERE r.VALID_END_DATE IS NULL AND r.BOM_TYPE IN 
('Production' ,'Finance' ) ) SELECT COUNT (*) AS sap_only_components FROM sap_components s LEFT 
JOIN bom_components b ON s.PLANT_CODE = b.PLANT_CODE AND s.PRIMARY_MATERIAL = 
b.PRIMARY_MATERIAL AND s.COMPONENT_MATERIAL = b.COMPONENT_MATERIAL WHERE 
b.COMPONENT_MATERIAL IS NULL ;  
1 287796 
✅5.2 BOM Portal -Only Components
Purpose: Identify components that exist in BOM Portal but do NOT exist in SAP.
WITH bom_components AS (Validity Tests
Wednesday, July 30, 2025 10:22 PM
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Component Level Page 780    
WITH bom_components AS (
  SELECT DISTINCT
    p.PLANT_CODE,
    m.MATERIAL_NUM AS PRIMARY_MATERIAL,
    cm.MATERIAL_NUM AS COMPONENT_MATERIAL
  FROM `prod -2134-
entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bompdb_prod_bom_mysql_restricted_confidential.recipe
_current` r
  JOIN `prod -2134-
entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bom_mysql_bom_mysql_internal.plant_material_xref_cur
rent` pmx
    ON r.PLANT_MATERIAL_ID = pmx.PLANT_MATERIAL_ID
  JOIN `prod -2134-
entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bom_mysql_bom_mysql_internal.plant_current` p
    ON pmx.PLANT_ID = p.PLANT_ID
  JOIN `prod -2134-
entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bom_mysql_bom_mysql_internal.material_current` m
    ON pmx.MATERIAL_ID = m.MATERIAL_ID
  JOIN `prod -2134-
entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bom_mysql_bom_mysql_internal.recipe_formulation_xref
_current` rfx
    ON r.RECIPE_ID = rfx.RECIPE_ID
  JOIN `prod -2134-
entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bompdb_prod_bom_mysql_restricted_confidential.formul
ation_step_current` fs
    ON rfx.FORMULATION_STEP_ID = fs.FORMULATION_STEP_ID
  JOIN `prod -2134-
entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bompdb_prod_bom_mysql_restricted_confidential.step_c
omponent_group_current` scg
    ON scg.FORMULATION_STEP_ID = fs.FORMULATION_STEP_ID
  JOIN `prod -2134-
entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bompdb_prod_bom_mysql_restricted_confidential.step_c
omponent_current` sc
    ON sc.STEP_COMPONENT_GROUP_ID = scg.STEP_COMPONENT_GROUP_ID
  JOIN `prod -2134-
entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bom_mysql_bom_mysql_internal.plant_material_xref_cur
rent` cpmx
    ON sc.PLANT_MATERIAL_ID = cpmx.PLANT_MATERIAL_ID
  JOIN `prod -2134-
entdatalake -5938ee.mysql_bom_mysql_bom_mysql_internal.material_current` cm
    ON cpmx.MATERIAL_ID = cm.MATERIAL_ID
  WHERE r.VALID_END_DATE IS NULL
    AND r.BOM_TYPE IN ('Production','Finance')
),
sap_components AS (
  SELECT DISTINCT
    mast.werks AS PLANT_CODE,
    REGEXP_REPLACE(mast.matnr, r'^0+', '') AS PRIMARY_MATERIAL,
    REGEXP_REPLACE(stpo.idnrk, r'^0+', '') AS COMPONENT_MATERIAL
  FROM `prod -2134-entdatalake -5938ee.bigquery_prod_2434_entdataingest_
05104f_s4hana_internal.mast_current` mast
  JOIN `prod -2134-entdatalake -5938ee.bigquery_prod_2434_entdataingest_
05104f_s4hana_confidential.stpo_current` stpo
    ON mast.stlnr = stpo.stlnr
  JOIN `prod -2134-entdatalake -5938ee.bigquery_prod_2434_entdataingest_
05104f_s4hana_confidential.stko_current` stko
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Component Level Page 781    
05104f_s4hana_confidential.stko_current` stko
    ON mast.stlnr = stko.stlnr AND mast.stlal = stko.stlal
  WHERE stko.valid_to = '9999 -12-31'
    AND stpo.valid_to = '9999 -12-31'
    AND mast.stlan IN ('1','6') --Production or Finance
)
SELECT COUNT(*) AS bom_only_components
FROM bom_components b
LEFT JOIN sap_components s
  ON s.PLANT_CODE = b.PLANT_CODE
AND s.PRIMARY_MATERIAL = b.PRIMARY_MATERIAL
AND s.COMPONENT_MATERIAL = b.COMPONENT_MATERIAL
WHERE s.COMPONENT_MATERIAL IS NULL;
1 358759
✅Output:
Query 5.1 →  umber of components only in SAP . •
Query 5.2 →  umber of components only in BOM Portal . •
⚡Do you want me to combine these into ONE unified query that outputs both counts (sap_only and 
bom_only) in the same result table ?
Or should I extend this to also return detail rows for each mismatch type (with plant, primary 
material, and component material) ?
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Component Level Page 782    
✅1. Overall Context
You are working on data reconciliation between BOM Portal (MySQL) and SAP (BigQuery) for  
component -level details, and ensuring alignment with business reporting requirements .
The conversation suggests:
You’ve been debugging SQL logic and Power BI alignment . •
Stakeholders want visibility into the scope, findings, and blockers . •
They expect a clear analysis of the root causes and what’s pending . •
✅2. What the Stakeholders Asked For
Exact data facts you were trying to resolve : Which fields, which mismatches, what validation logic. •
Current findings and issues : What problems you’ve uncovered. •
Scope reviewed so far : Which tables, fields, systems you analyzed. •
Next steps and what’s pending . •
✅3. Analysis of Problems You’re Facing
Here’s what likely falls under your issues list based on previous reconciliation work:
A) Query Logic & Data Alignment Issues
Version Logic•
Portal BOM version uses +31 for Production, +1for Finance → Risk of mismatch if SAP versioning logic 
differs.•
Header vs Component Mapping•
Header -level matches exist, but components differ (missing in SAP or BOM Portal). •
Null Handling & Padding•
LPAD and CASE expressions sometimes cause mismatched string vs numeric types.•
Plant -level Joins•
PLANT_CODE joins may fail when plant_material_xref records are missing. •
B) Data Quality & System Discrepancies
Orphan Records•
Recipes exist in BOM Portal without SAP counterpart (or vice versa).•
Inventory Point Indicator (INV_PT_IND)•
Some BOMs flagged incorrectly → extra rows in result sets. •
Component Usage %, Scrap % Differences•
Values don’t reconcile due to transformation or stale data.•
Throughput & Crewing Mismatch•
Different SAP transaction data vs BOM Portal values due to timing of sync.•
C) Performance & Query Complexity
Large Joins•
Multiple table joins across GCP BigQuery and MySQL → timeouts or slow execution. •
Data Volume•
Millions of rows processed → performance optimization needed (indexes, filtering). •Problems
Thursday, July 31, 2025 3:19 PM
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Component Level Page 783    
Millions of rows processed → performance optimization needed (indexes, filtering). •
D) Access & Refresh Problems
Restricted Dataset Refresh•
Blocked refresh (your second screenshot issue) → causes stale Power BI visuals. •
Semantic Models Locked•
Models included in App cannot be deleted → making workspace cleanup harder. •
✅4. Root Causes Identified
Version number transformation inconsistencies → mismatches in joins. •
Legacy BOM Portal vs SAP structural differences → missing mappings. •
Gateway or credential restrictions → blocked refresh. •
Dependencies in published app → cannot delete datasets. •
✅5. Actions Already Taken
Reviewed query logic line by line for:•
SAP vs BOM Portal joins.•
Handling of Production vs Finance BOM versions.•
Attempted to optimize reconciliation query using CTEs for clarity . •
Validated some fields (e.g., throughput & crewing) against SAP C203 transaction. •
Communicated blockers to team, started drafting full issue log.•
✅6. Pending Actions
Finalize discrepancy report showing: •
Headers that match but components differ.•
Missing recipes between systems.•
Implement Power BI semantic model cleanup after updating the App. •
Fix refresh ownership issue (take over dataset or coordinate with owner). •
Create documentation of join logic & data lineage for transparency. •
✅7. Recommended Structure for Your Document
Section 1: Overview
Objective of reconciliation.•
Scope: BOM Portal tables + SAP tables (BigQuery).•
Section 2: Findings
List of mismatches found so far (headers, components, throughput, crewing).•
Section 3: Current Issues & Root Causes
Query logic problems.•
Data quality gaps.•
System limitations (App dependency, refresh lock).•
Section 4: Actions Taken
What’s fixed, what’s in testing.•
Section 5: Next Steps & Timeline
Pending items and ETA.•
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Component Level Page 784    
Pending items and ETA.•
   BOM -SAP Reconciliation Component Level Page 785    
Overview of project: 
New provider for PLM, PDM is going away. 
Faster, betterl,  more efficient
Vendor is specright, Sam Wallace Product Manager
First purpose build data management platform
Replace PLM system currently in discovery and requirements. 
Fast growing company in data management space. 
Single source of truth from specification data perspective. 
Avoids customization wherever possible, 
Currently in requirements gathering phase
Workstream lead: Amanda Gabourel
Who do I need to notify reach out to kari seamonsIntegration Approach
Thursday, July 17, 2025 1:02 PM
   Spec Right Page 786    
Interim Solution with Specright –Team Update
Context & Recalibration
We are recalibrating the overall timeline.•
Biggest initiative right now: determining requirements for ingredients.•
Focus is on reworking for a better strategy to define requirements from the Specright side.•
Goal: identify the exact data elements needed for ingredients.•
Current Work
Jordan Smith is gathering guards and validators for each workflow.•
Need to estimate effort and timeline; currently, there is no amended timeline.•
Next Phases (in order):
Ingredients1.
Raw data2.
Formulation3.
Packaging4.
Trade5.
Dependencies & Gaps
Must reconcile current state of GSM.•
Identify gaps with Specright.•
Plan follow -up discussions with Specright to align. •9/3/2025
Wednesday, September 03, 2025 3:25 PM
   Spec Right Page 787    
Engagement with BASIS support will remain the same
BASIS will engage with SAP Rise as necessary
Plan
ARS roles will be reworked to join SAP 
SAP Rise Kickoff
Monday, July 07, 2025 10:17 AM
   SAP Rise Kick Off Page 788    
Cost Accounting Team Request that we provide them Reconcilliation Analysis
PDM Materials to BOM Materials
Multiple BOMs for each PDM Materials
We need more visibility between BOM and PDM
Recon Report between BOM/PDM
The way BOM Portal obtains formulation spec data does not plug directly into PDM
Official Product is this middleware service
BOM = Material Plant and Version
PDM ignore plant and version
Asked PDM to check data for specific materials to compare whats in official product and BOM Portal
Ask Allan what the business users are focused on 
Does BOM Portal to be in sync with PDM 
Official not getting most recent data from PDM
The most recent version is not most official version
Report CSV file 
Query that runs through formulations to check what the most recent version and status of most recent 
version 
Material ----Status of that Material ----Formulation spec number ----formulation spec version
Go directly to GCP Query that 
Schedule refresh to happen every monday from PowerBI perspective list of formulation status's 
We want the query by the 7th
Material comes from trade specification SAP4MM and should only come from trade spec makes sense coming from official specific ations. 
SAP S$ Mater
Trade spec num
Trade spec status
Formulation spec num
Formulation spec status
Formulation spec version seperately
Query the data drafting a PowerBI
Material number (material)•
Trade Spec number (trade_spec_num)•
Trade Spec version (trade_spec_version)•
Trade Spec stats (trade_spect_status)•
Another question:1/24 PDM Recon
Friday, January 24, 2025 9:59 AM
   BOM -PDM Recon Page 789    
Another question:
When we say we want only the most recent version of each material's spec, which of the following ways 
should we achieve that?
max(trade_spec_version)
We may get status's other that Official but it will be the most recent version to be 
created. This may include specs that are still in progressa.1.
where trade_spec_status = 'Official'
This will only show the official version of the trade spec.a.
b.2.
   BOM -PDM Recon Page 790    
Research Findings: 
Weekly BOM -to-PDM reconciliation report data corresponds to Material Spec number reference. •
Material Spec numbers are derived from the operation option from a Formulation Spec item.•
Confirmation needed from R&D that all materials have a material spec.•
Material spec numbers do not directly relate to SAP (PR3 or S4) Material Master numbers.•
Material spec numbers can only be checked through corresponding trade specs.•
Related specs options attached to a material spec include trade definition and formulation spec.•
SAP4MM can be mapped to the material spec through trade specs.•1.
Process Definition: 
Query data for ZSWP and ZFG Material types.•
Retrieve official trade specs with attributes: 
material_num (SAP4MM reference)•
trade_spec_num•
trade_spec_version•
trade_spec_status (must show "Official")••
Crosscheck related specs: 
Determine if the trade spec contains a lower -level item (Consumer Unit). •
If lower -level item is attached, retrieve attributes: 
[consumer unit] trade_spec_num•
[consumer unit] trade_spec_version•
[consumer unit] trade_spec_status (can be non -official but attached to official main 
trade spec)•••
Check material specifications section from <related specs> tab: 
Obtain material spec reference ("Spec Name").•
Retrieve attributes from material spec: 
material_spec_number•
material_spec_version•
material_spec_status (attached to consumer/trade specification)•••
If no lower -level item is attached, retrieve material spec directly from <related specs> tab. •2.
Next Steps: 
Schedule a call for tomorrow to discuss the content of the message.•
Review attached spreadsheet with draft reference of needed attributes.•
Reach out with any questions. •3.
Action Items:
Confirm with R&D that all materials have a material spec.•
Schedule and prepare for the call to discuss the outlined process and findings.•
Review and finalize the spreadsheet with the required attributes for data retrieval.•
Most recent 
Official Version
Ask for official trade spec instead of most recent one. 
Official
Include any possible trade spec that is pursuing
Trade spec is inofficial 
Row for varsion, row for preofficial one
How to normalize PDM?2/19/25
Wednesday, February 19, 2025 2:57 PM
   BOM -PDM Recon Page 791    
Look for official trade specs, make sure verify at 
First approach include offficial and any other jersio
Spec number of the output
ONLY ASK FOR OFFICIAL VERSION
CHECK FOR TRADE SPEC TO ONLY POINT AT ZSWP AND ZFG. 
Once we have this we can drill down to whatever spec. 
Formulation Version attached to official version
Consumer Unit Spec
Simulate this diagram right here, draft using draw.io
If trade unit spec doesn’t have lower level item 
Consumer user spec (official or not) -Formulation
Material Spec Num is the one by the PDM API that is in use to execute the BOM Portal to the PDM
Material Spec num doesn’t have an 
   BOM -PDM Recon Page 792    
Hi team, this is the first query draft for the requirement. 
In this query the trade specs that have 2 levels of Consumer Unit is only showing the first level that is the 
level that has the relationship to the Material spec and Formulation spec. 
For example for trade spec 5453093 -015 that has two levels of Consumer Unit, is showing this:
PDM DATA BOM Portal
material_type (ZFG) -Tyson Finished 
ProductsMATERIAL.MATERIAL_TYPE
trade_specification_mat
erial_num1E+10 MATERIAL.MATERIAL_NUM
trade_specification_id 2147E56C6036 -F98B -4320 -
A260 -A41439D4F60E
trade_specification_nu
m_version5453093 -015 CONCAT_WS(' -', 
cfs.FORMULATION_STEP_CODE, 
cfs.FORMULATION_STEP_VERSION) as 
trade_specification_num_version,
trade_specification_nu
m5453093 cfs.FORMULATION_STEP_CODE
trade_specification_vers
ion015       cfs.FORMULATION_STEP_VERSION
trade_specification_stat
usOfficial
trade_specification_nam
eCroissant, Sausage, Egg & 
Cheese SandwichesFormulation.Name
trade_specification_des
criptionCroissant, Sausage, Egg & 
Cheese Sandwiches.
trade_specification_type Traded Unit
cu_trade_specification_i
d2147BBE55A84 -CC96 -476E -
B84A -1B44A5647E44
cu_trade_specification_
num5467420
cu_trade_specification_
version010       
cu_trade_specification_
num_version5467420 -010
cu_trade_specification_
statusOfficial
cu_trade_specification_
nameCU 1 -Sausage, Egg & Cheese 
Croissant SandwichesQuery
Tuesday, February 25, 2025 2:56 PM
   BOM -PDM Recon Page 793    
name Croissant Sandwiches
cu_trade_specification_
description
cu_trade_specification_t
ypeConsumer Unit
material_specification_n
um_id100416472D30 -870F -4531 -85
C2-8E8F78AA9A7B
material_specification_n
um_version5478106 -010
material_specification_n
um5478106
material_specification_v
ersion010       
material_specification_s
tatusOfficial
formulation_specificatio
n_num_id58168908E7E5 -5AB2 -4A14 -93
F5-7DBAB014D72A
formulation_specificatio
n_num_version5478099 -010
formulation_specificatio
n_num5478099
formulation_specificatio
n_version010       
formulation_specificatio
n_statusOfficial
As you can see the Consumer unit is the first level CU 1. But if you to GSM for the trade spec 5453093 -015 
Related specs section, you will see the CU 2 related to it 
This CU 2 contains in Related specs section, the CU 1 that is showing on the table, the 5467420 -010 spec
   BOM -PDM Recon Page 794    
This CU 2 contains in Related specs section, the CU 1 that is showing on the table, the 5467420 -010 spec
We want to know if you required the details of the CU 2 as well to add the other columns, or only with the CU 
1 is fine
GSM Trade Specifications detail (ZFG,ZSWP)
GSM Trade Specifications detail (ZFG,ZSWP) 02242025.xlsx
   BOM -PDM Recon Page 795    
I had the opportunity today to tour a Tyson Poultry Plant. It was an incredibly valuable and eye -opening 
experience. Seeing the full production process —from processing and deboning to quality control and 
packaging —gave me a much deeper appreciation for the work our frontline team members do every 
day to help feed the world.
This experience gave me new insights that will directly enhance how I approach my role at Tyson. If you 
ever have the chance to visit one of your company’s plants, take it!  ou’ll walk away with a deeper 
understanding and greater respect for the teams making it all happen.Friday, February 28, 2025 11:47 AM
   BOM -PDM Recon Page 796    
ACCESS_AUDIT:
ACCESS_AUDIT_ID Primary Key
ACCESS_USER (User that accessed report)
ACCESS_DATE (Date the Report was Accessed by a specific user)
PAGE_NAME (Report)
SUB_PAGE_NAME (NULL No Values)
PARAMETER_TEXT (NULL No Values)
BOM_SETTING:
BOM_SETTING_ID Primary Key
BOM_SETTING_ENV_ID (Environment 1=Dev, 2=Local, 3=PROD, 4 = QA, 5=SBX, 6=QA2, 7=QA)
BOM_SETTING_NAME (Name of Setting)
BOM_SETTING_VALUE (Value of setting)
BOM_SETTING_AUDIT:
BOM_SETTING_AUDIT_ID
BOM_SETTING_ID
NEW_VALUE
MOD_DATE
MOD_USERID
BOM_SETTING_ENV:
BOM_SETTING_ENV_ID
ENVIRONMENT_NAME
COMPONENT_EDIT_AUDIT:
COMPONENT_EDIT_AUDIT_ID
RECIPE_ID
RECIPE_PLANT_MATERIAL_ID
RECIPE_VERSION_NUM
COMPONENT_PLANT_MATERIAL
ORIGINATING_STEP_CODE
ORIGINATING_STEP_VERSION
DESTINATION_STEP_CODE
DESTINATION_STEP_VERSION
CORP_SPEC_STEP_CODE
CORP_SPEC_STEP_VERSION
INPUT_IND
ACTION_DESCR
STEP_COMPONENT_GROUP_ID
MOD_USER_ID
MOD_DATE
CORP_FORMULATION_STEP:
CORP_FORMULATION_STEP_ID
FORMULATION_STEP_CODEBOM_MYSQL
Wednesday, March 05, 2025 1:34 PM
   BOM -PDM Recon Page 797    
FORMULATION_STEP_CODE
FORMULATION_STEP_TYPE
FORMULATION_STEP_DESCR
PROCESS_TYPE
PROCESS_DESCR
CORPORATE_INSTRUCTION_TEXT
CORPORATE_REJECTION_CRITERIA_TEXT
CORPORATE_STANDARDS_COMMENT
CORPORATE_PACK_METHOD_TEXT
OUTPUT_MATERIAL_ID
FORMULATION_STEP_VERSION
COST_CENTER:
COST_CENTER_ID
COST_CENTER_NUM
COST_CENTER_DESCR
PLANT_ID
BEGIN_DATE
END_DATE
COST_SALE_XREF:
COST_SALE_XREF_ID
SAP_CUT_ID
SELLABLE_PLANT_MAT_ID
COSTING_PLANT_MAT_ID
CUTLIST_ID
CUT:
CUT_ID
CUT_DESCR
CUTLIST_ID
INPUT_PLANT_MATERIAL_ID
SAP_CUT_ID
COPY_CUT_ID
ACTIVE_IND
STATUS_ID
GAIN_WEIGHT_IND
CLASSIFICATION_CUT_IND
BLOCK_CUT_IND
CUT_USAGE_PCT
DISASSEMBLY_PROCESS
VARIANCE_IND
   BOM -PDM Recon Page 798    
FIXED_QTY
FIXED_QTY_UOM
SURPLUS_FIXED_QTY_UOM
SURPLUS_FIXED_QTY
SURPLUS_CUT_PCT
CREATE_USERID
CREATE_DATE
MOD_USERID
MOD_DATE
CUTLIST:
CUTLIST_ID
CUTLIST_DESCR
CUTLIST_SAP_ID
COPY_CUTLIST_ID
STATUS_ID
SAP_VARIANT_NUM
PLANT_MATERIAL_ID
CUTLIST_CATEGORY_ID
BYPRODUCT_SOURCE
ORG_CUT_SAP_ID
ORG_PLANT_MAT_ID
CREATE_USERID
CREATE_DATE
MOD_USERID
MOD_DATE
LIVE_WEIGHT_ID
FROM_DATE
ROUTING_EFFECTIVE_DATE
CUTLIST_CATEGORY:
CUTLIST_CATEGORY_ID
CUTLIST_CATEGORY_DESCR
CUT_DETAIL:
CUT_DETAIL_ID
CUT_ID
OUTPUT_PLANT_MATERIAL_ID
YIELD_PCT
COST_CENTER_ID
CUT_TO_COMPLETE_ZERO_IND
BYPRODUCT_IND
MATERIAL_COST_SOURCE_FIXED
MATERIAL_COST_SOURCE_EQUIVELANCE
MATERIAL_COST_SOURCE_PRICE
   BOM -PDM Recon Page 799    
MATERIAL_COST_SOURCE_PRICE
FIXED_PRICE_IND
ENGR_YIELD_PCT
CREATE_USERID
CREATE_DATE
MOD_USERID
MOD_DATE
PRIMARY_IND
CALCULATION_TYPE
MATERIAL_COST_SOURCE_FIXED_OTHER
MATERIAL_COST_SOURCE_EQUIVELANCE_OTHER
MATERIAL_COST_SOURCE_PRICE_OTHER
FIXED_PRICE_OTHER_IND
MASTERCUT_IND
REMAINDER_IND
PRIMARY_LIVE_PCT_IND
CUT_ROUTING:
ROUTING_ID
ROUTING_DESCR
ROUTING_SAP_ID
RATED_THROUGHPUT_QTY
FINAL_THROUGHPUT_OVRD_QTY
FINAL_THROUGHPUT_QTY
CREW_SIZE_QTY
STATUS_ID
CUT_ID
CREATE_USERID
CREATE_DATE
MOD_USERID
MOD_DATE
THROUGHPUT_OVRD_REASON_ID
LIMIT_THROUGHPUT_DESCR
PLANT_RESOURCE_ID
POSITION_TITLE_OVERRIDE_ID
ELMAH_Error:
ErrorId
Application
Host
Type
Source
Message
User
StatusCode
   BOM -PDM Recon Page 800    
TimeUtc
Sequence
AllXml
ESP_REJECT:
ESP_REJECT_ID
PLANT_ID
MATERIAL_ID
REJECT_DATE
REJECT_USER_ID
STEP_NAME
REASON_TEXT
PLANT_RESOURCE_ID
FORMULATION:
FORMULATION_ID
MATERIAL_ID
NAME
VERSION
SECONDS
REJECTION_CRITERIA
METHOD_OF_PACK
STANDARDS
NET_WEIGHT
FORMULATION_COMPONENT: 
FORMULATION_COMPONENT_ID
FORMULATION_INPUT_GROUP_ID
MAIN
ITEM_TYPE
VALUE
FORMULATION_PACKAGING_GROUP_ID
MATERIAL_NUM
UOM
FORMULATION_INPUT_GROUP:
FORMULATION_INPUT_GROUP_ID
FORMULATION_STEP_NODE_ID
FORMULATION_PACKAGING_GROUP:
FORMULATION_PACKAGING_GROUP_ID
FORMULATION_ID
FORMULATION_SECONDS:
FORMULATION_ID 
FORMULATION_SECOND_ID 
   BOM -PDM Recon Page 801    
MATERIAL_NUM 
FORMULATION_STEP:
FORMULATION_STEP_ID
CORP_FORMULATION_STEP_ID
RECIPE_PART_ID
LEAST_COST_MATERIAL_ID
GROUP_YIELD_PCT
GROUP_SCRAP_PCT
RECIPE_TEXT
ESP_PUBLISH_JOB_ID
ESP_SYNCH_IND
PLANT_RESOURCE_NETWORK_ID
OVERRIDE_PLANT_RESOURCE_NETWORK_ID
OVERRIDE_GROUP_YIELD_PCT
OVERRIDE_GROUP_SCRAP_PCT
CORPORATE_PACK_METHOD_TEXT
FORMULATION_STEP_LINK:
FORMULATION_STEP_LINK_ID
FORMULATION_ID
SOURCE_STEP_NODE_ID
FORMULATION_STEP_NODE_ID
FALLBACK_NAME
PERCENT_STEP
UOM
FORMULATION_STEP_NODE:
FORMULATION_STEP_NODE_ID
FORMULATION_ID
CODE
VERSION
TYPE
SEQUENCE
NAME
DESCRIPTION
INSTRUCTIONS
ROOT
FORMULATION_UPDATE:
FORMULATION_UPDATE_ID
FORMULATION_ID
EXPIRED
   BOM -PDM Recon Page 802    
EXPIRED
RESOLVED
INVN_PT_RECIPE_TYPE:
INVN_PT_RECIPE_TYPE_ID
INVN_PT_RECIPE_TYPE_DESCR
ITEM_CODE_TYPE:
ITEM_CODE_TYPE_ID
SAP_TYPE_CODE
ITEM_CODE_TYPE_DESCR
ACTIVE_IND
SAP_ITEM_CODE
JOB:
JOB_ID
JOB_STATUS_ID
CREATE_DATE
COMPLETE_DATE
JOB_TEXT
JOB_TYPE
ERROR_TEXT
JOB_HISTORY:
JOB_ID
JOB_STATUS_ID
CREATE_DATE
COMPLETE_DATE
JOB_TEXT
JOB_TYPE
ERROR_TEXT
JOB_STATUS:
JOB_STATUS_ID
JOB_STATUS_DESCR
LAYOUT_DETAIL:
LAYOUT_DETAIL_ID
LAYOUT_HEADER_ID
FORMULATION_CODE
FORMULATION_VERSION
X_POSITION
Y_POSITION
LAYOUT_HEADER:
LAYOUT_HEADER_ID
LAYOUT_NAME
PLANT_ID
   BOM -PDM Recon Page 803    
PLANT_ID
CREATE_USERID
CREATE_DATE
MOD_USERID
MOD_DATE
PUBLIC_IND
EDIT_IND
LAYOUT_RECIPE_XREF:
LAYOUT_HEADER_ID
RECIPE_ID
LIVE_WEIGHT:
LIVE_WEIGHT_ID
LIVE_WEIGHT_NAME
CREATE_USERID
CREATE_DATE
MOD_USERID
MOD_DATE
MANUFACTURING_TEXT_HISTORY:
MANUFACTURING_TEXT_HISTORY_ID
RECIPE_ID
FORMULATION_STEP_ID
RECIPE_PLANT_MATERIAL_ID
FORMULATION_STEP_CODE
MOD_USERID
MOD_DATE
MANUFACTURING_TEXT
MASS_CREATE_JOB:
MASS_CREATE_JOB_ID
PORTAL_USER_ID
PLANT_ID
MASS_CREATE_JOB_STAGE_ID
CREATE_DATE
STATUS_DATE
MASS_CREATE_JOB_DETAIL:
MASS_CREATE_JOB_DETAIL_ID
MASS_CREATE_JOB_ID
PLANT_MATERIAL_ID
RECIPE_ID
DISPLAY_SEQ
JOB_ID
   BOM -PDM Recon Page 804    
JOB_ID
MASS_CREATE_JOB_STAGE:
MASS_CREATE_JOB_STAGE_ID
MASS_CREATE_JOB_STAGE_NAME
MASS_CREATE_JOB_STAGE_TEXT
MASS_CREATE_JOB_STAGE_NEXT_SYSTEM_STAGE
MASS_CREATE_JOB_STAGE_NEXT_USER_STAGE
MASS_CREATE_JOB_STAGE_NEXT_STAGE_METHOD
MATERIAL:
MATERIAL_ID
MATERIAL_NUM
MATERIAL_TYPE
MATERIAL_DESCR
CORP_DELETE_IND
CORP_STATUS_CODE
COSTING_MATERIAL_ID
BRINE_INGREDIENT_TYPE_ID
CORP_BRINE_PUMP_PCT
COSTING_MOD_USERID
COSTING_MOD_DATE
MOD_USERID
MOD_DATE
CORP_SPEC_IND
MATERIAL_GROUP
MATERIAL_GROUP_DESCR
MATERIAL_GLOBAL_SCRAP:
MATERIAL_GLOBAL_SCRAP_ID
MATERIAL_GROUP
MATERIAL_TYPE
PREPARED_GLOBAL_SCRAP
POULTRY_GLOBAL_SCRAP
MATERIAL_GLOBAL_SCRAP_START_DATE
MATERIAL_UOM_XREF:
MATERIAL_UOM_ID
MATERIAL_ID
UOM_ID
UOM_BASE_IND
UOM_NUMERATOR
UOM_DENOMINATOR
MATERIAL_WITHDRAWN:
   BOM -PDM Recon Page 805    
MATERIAL_WITHDRAWN:
MATERIAL_WITHDRAWN_ID
SELLABLE_PLANT_MAT_ID
COSTING_PLANT_MAT_ID
USAGE_PCT
MI_AUDIT:
MI_AUDIT_ID
MI_ID
MI_AUDIT_TYPE_ID
MI_AUDIT_USERID
AUDIT_DATE
AUDIT_NOTES
MI_AUDIT_TYPE:
MI_AUDIT_TYPE_ID
MI_AUDIT_TYPE_DESCR
MI_MANUFACTURING_INSTRUCTION:
MI_ID
PLANT_MATERIAL_ID
PLANT_RESOURCE_NETWORK_ID
APPROVED_VERSION
EFFECTIVE_DATE
SPEC_DESCR
PRODUCT_ATTR_HTML
VERSION_NUM
MI_PRINT_PROFILE:
MI_PRINT_PROFILE_ID
MI_ID
PROFILE_NAME
DEFAULT_BATCH_SIZE
STEP_GROUP_IND
MI_PRINT_PROFILE_DTL:
MI_PRINT_PROFILE_DTL_ID
MI_PRINT_PROFILE_ID
MI_STEP_ID
PRINT_SEQ
PRINT_CORP_INSTRN_IND
PRINT_CORP_USAGE_IND
PRINT_PACK_METHOD_IND
PRINT_STANDARD_IND
PRINT_REJECT_IND
   BOM -PDM Recon Page 806    
PRINT_REJECT_IND
MI_STEP:
MI_STEP_ID
MI_ID
STEP_CODE
STEP_NAME
PROCESS_INSTRUCTION_HTML
MI_STEP_SECTION:
MI_STEP_SPEC_ID
MI_STEP_ID
STEP_SPEC_NAME
SECTION_ROW_ID
SECTION_ROW_SEQUENCE
MI_TEMPLATE:
MI_TEMPLATE_ID
MI_TEMPLATE_NAME
CREATE_DATE
CREATE_USERID
TEMPLATE_HTML
MI_TEMPLATE_TYPE_ID
MI_TEMPLATE_TYPE:
MI_TEMPLATE_TYPE_ID
MI_TEMPLATE_TYPE_DESCR
MRS_REASON:
MRS_REASON_ID
MRS_REASON_DESCR
ACTIVE_IND
DISPLAY_SEQ
MRS_REQUEST:
MRS_REQUEST_ID
MATERIAL_ID
MRS_REASON_ID
MRS_NUM
USER_REQUEST_TEXT
REQUEST_USERID
REQUEST_DATE
OPERAND_CONTROL:
OPERAND_CONTROL_ID
OPERAND_VALUE
CREATE_DATE
CREATE_USERID
   BOM -PDM Recon Page 807    
CREATE_USERID
MOD_DATE
MOD_USERID
PDM_ACTION_TYPE:
PDM_ACTION_TYPE_ID
ACTION_DESCR
SORT_ORDER
PDM_CHANGE_DATA:
PDM_CHANGE_DATA_ID
PDM_CHANGE_DTL_ID
PDM_FIELD_REGISTRY_ID
PDM_FIELD_VALUE
PDM_CHANGE_DTL:
PDM_CHANGE_DTL_ID
PDM_CHANGE_HDR_ID
PDM_ACTION_TYPE_ID
PDM_FIELD_REGISTRY_ID
PDM_CHANGE_HDR:
PDM_CHANGE_HDR_ID
EVENT_ID
OFFICIAL_DATE
RECEIVE_DATE
SAP_MATERIAL_NUM
CHANGE_REASON_COMMENT
JOB_STATUS_ID
ERROR_TEXT
MICROVERSION_IND
PDM_FIELD_REGISTRY:
PDM_FIELD_REGISTRY_ID
PDM_FIELD_NAME
COMMON_NAME
MOD_USERID
MOD_DATE
PDM_RULE_DTL:
PDM_RULE_DTL_ID
PDM_RULE_HDR_ID
OBJECT_NAME
FIELD_NAME
OPERAND_CONTROL_ID
RULE_VALUE
PDM_FIELD_REGISTRY_ID
SORT_ORDER
CREATE_DATE
CREATE_USERID
   BOM -PDM Recon Page 808    
CREATE_USERID
MOD_DATE
MOD_USERID
PDM_RULE_HDR:
PDM_RULE_HDR_ID
PDM_FIELD_REGISTRY_ID
PDM_ACTION_TYPE_ID
RULE_DESCR
RULE_ACTION_TYPE_ID
JOB_STATUS_ID
CREATE_DATE
CREATE_USERID
MOD_DATE
MOD_USERID
PDM_SPEC_STEP:
PDM_SPEC_STEP_ID
PDM_SPEC_STEP_DESCR
ACTIVE_IND
SHARE_FORMULATION_IND
PLANT:
PLANT_ID
PLANT_CODE
PLANT_DESCR
SAP_COSTING_IND
OVERRIDE_FORMULATION_IND
SAP_BOM_TYPE
MOD_USERID
MOD_DATE
PLANT_TYPE
PLANT_TYPE_DESCR
PLANT_MATERIAL_XREF
PLANT_MATERIAL_ID
PLANT_ID
MATERIAL_ID
PLANT_DELETE_IND
PLANT_STATUS
PROCUREMENT_TYPE
ISSUE_UOM_ID
MATERIAL_EXTENDED_IND
MAIN_INGREDIENT_IND
COOK_SHRINK_PCT
MOD_DATE
MOD_USERID
   BOM -PDM Recon Page 809    
MOD_USERID
PLANT_RESOURCE:
PLANT_RESOURCE_ID
PLANT_ID
RESOURCE_NUMBER
RESOURCE_NAME
ACTIVE_IND
SAP_COST_CENTER_NUM
MOD_USERID
MOD_DATE
CONTROL_KEY
PLANT_RESOURCE_NETWORK:
PLANT_RESOURCE_NETWORK_ID
RESOURCE_NETWORK_ID
PLANT_RESOURCE_ID
MOD_USERID
MOD_DATE
PORTAL_USER:
PORTAL_USER_ID
USER_NAME
ADMIN_USER_IND
FIRST_NAME
LAST_NAME
EMAIL_ADDR
JOB_TITLE_DESCR
PHONE_NUM
LANGUAGE_CODE
CREATE_USERID
CREATE_DATE
STATUS
POSITION_TITLE:
POSITION_TITLE_ID
POSITION_TITLE_DESCR
POSITION_TITLE_GROUP_DESCR
CREATE_USERID
CREATE_DATE
MOD_USERID
MOD_DATE
RECIPE:
RECIPE_ID
   BOM -PDM Recon Page 810    
RECIPE_ID
PLANT_MATERIAL_ID
SAP_VERSION_NUM
SAP_RECIPE_NUM
SAP_BOM_NUM
STATUS_DATE
RESOURCE_NETWORK_NUM
CREATE_DATE
RECIPE_STATUS_ID
ORIGINATOR_ID
OWNER_ID
RECIPE_DESCR
ESP_PARENT_RECIPE_ID
SPEC_MATERIAL_ID
COST_TEST_IND
PRODUCTION_SEND_DATE
STANDARDS_OVERRIDE_DATE
STANDARDS_OVERRIDE_USERID
MOD_USERID
MOD_DATE
ALT_PACK_METHOD_IND
ALT_PACK_METHOD_RECIPE_NUM
PLANT_RESOURCE_NETWORK_ID
THROUGHPUT_QTY
LB_DAY_QTY
CREW_QTY
OVERRIDE_PLANT_RESOURCE_NETWORK_ID
OVERRIDE_THROUGHPUT_QTY
OVERRIDE_LB_DAY_QTY
OVERRIDE_CREW_QTY
INVN_PT_RECIPE_TYPE_ID
VALID_START_DATE
VALID_END_DATE
BOM_TYPE
RECIPE_AUDIT:
RECIPE_AUDIT_ID
MOD_USERID
MOD_DATE
RECIPE_AUDIT_TYPE_ID
   BOM -PDM Recon Page 811    
RECIPE_AUDIT_TYPE_ID
RECIPE_STATUS_ID
RECIPE_ID
SAP_VERSION
PLANT_MATERIAL_ID
PDM_CHANGE_HDR_ID
BOM_TYPE
RECIPE_AUDIT_HISTORY:
RECIPE_AUDIT_HISTORY_ID
MOD_USERID
MOD_DATE
RECIPE_AUDIT_TYPE_ID
RECIPE_STATUS_ID
RECIPE_ID
SAP_VERSION_NUM
PLANT_MATERIAL_ID
PDM_CHANGE_HDR_ID
RECIPE_AUDIT_TYPE:
RECIPE_AUDIT_TYPE_ID
RECIPE_AUDIT_TYPE_DESCR
RECIPE_ACTIVE_IND
RECIPE_ERROR:
RECIPE_ID
RECIPE_ERROR_ID
ERROR_MESSAGE
ERROR_DATE
RECIPE_FORMULATION_XREF:
RECIPE_FORMULA_XREF_ID
RECIPE_ID
FORMULATION_STEP_ID
OUTPUT_STEP_COMPONENT_ID
INVN_PT_IND
INVN_PT_RECIPE_TYPE_ID
GROUP_YIELD_PCT
GROUP_SCRAP_PCT
OVERRIDE_GROUP_YIELD_PCT
OVERRIDE_GROUP_SCRAP_PCT
ESP_SYNC_IND
RECIPE_RESOURCE_JOB_XREF_ID
SUM_VALIDATION_IND
   BOM -PDM Recon Page 812    
SUM_VALIDATION_IND
RECIPE_NOTIFICATION:
RECIPE_NOTIFICATION_ID
RECIPE_ID
NOTIFICATION_TEXT
CREATE_DATE
ACKNOWLEDGE_DATE
ACKNOWLEDGE_USERID
RECIPE_RESOURCE_JOB_XREF:
RECIPE_RESOURCE_JOB_XREF_ID
PLANT_RESOURCE_ID
ESP_JOB_ID
PLANT_MATERIAL_ID
ESP_JOB_COMMENT
ESP_JOB_PUBLISH_DATE
BOM_APPROVE_USERID
BOM_APPROVE_DATE
BOM_REJECT_USERID
BOM_REJECT_TEXT
WHATIF_COSTING_DATE
RECIPE_STATUS:
RECIPE_STATUS_ID
RECIPE_DESCR
RECIPE_CODE
ACTIVE_IND
RECIPE_SUBMIT_JOB:
RECIPE_SUBMIT_JOB_ID
RECIPE_ID
RECIPE_SUBMIT_JOB_STATUS_ID
ERROR_TEXT
SUBMIT_USERID
DEBUG_BOM_FLAG
DEBUG_RECIPE_FLAG
CREATE_DATE
MOD_DATE
RECIPE_SUBMIT_JOB_MASTER_ID
RECIPE_SUBMIT_JOB_AUDIT:
RECIPE_SUBMIT_JOB_AUDIT_ID
RECIPE_SUBMIT_JOB_ID
RECIPE_SUBMIT_JOB_STATUS_ID
   BOM -PDM Recon Page 813    
RECIPE_SUBMIT_JOB_STATUS_ID
ENVIRONMENT_USER
ENVIRONMENT_MACHINE
MOD_DATE
RECIPE_SUBMIT_JOB_HISTORY:
RECIPE_SUBMIT_JOB_HISTORY_ID
RECIPE_ID
RECIPE_SUBMIT_JOB_STATUS_ID
ERROR_TEXT
SUBMIT_USERID
DEBUG_BOM_FLAG
DEBUG_RECIPE_FLAG
CREATE_DATE
MOD_DATE
RECIPE_SUBMIT_JOB_MASTER:
RECIPE_SUBMIT_JOB_MASTER_ID
MASTER_RECIPE_ID
RECIPE_SUBMIT_JOB_STATUS_ID
SUBMIT_DATE
SCHEDULE_DATE
PROCESS_DATE
JOB_ACCEPT_IND
SUBMIT_USERID
DEBUG_BOM_FLAG
DEBUG_RECIPE_FLAG
REJECTION_REASON
RECIPE_SUBMIT_JOB_STATUS:
RECIPE_SUBMIT_JOB_STATUS_ID
STATUS_DESCR
RECON_ERROR:
RECON_ERROR_ID
ERROR_DATE
ERROR_MESSAGE
RECIPE_ID
RECON_MATERIAL:
RECON_MATERIAL_ID
MATERIAL_ID
ERROR
OCCURRED
PDM_JSON
   BOM -PDM Recon Page 814    
PDM_JSON
RECON_RECIPE:
RECON_RECIPE_ID
RECON_MATERIAL_ID
RECIPE_ID
ERROR
BOM_JSON
FORMULATION_CONSISTENT
PDM_CONSISTENT
RECON_REFRESH:
SUCCESS
START
RESULT
RECON_REFRESH_ID
RECIPE_ID
END
BATCH
RECORD_STATUS:
STATUS_ID
STATUS_DESCR
RELEASE_TYPE:
RELEASE_TYPE_ID
TYPE_DESCR
RESOURCE_NETWORK:
RESOURCE_NETWORK_ID
NETWORK_OBJECT_NUM
RESOURCE_NETWORK_NAME
ACTIVE_IND
MOD_USERID
MOD_DATE
ROUTING_POSITION_TITLE_XREF:
ROUTING_POSITION_TITLE_XREF_ID
ROUTING_ID
POSITION_TITLE_ID
WORKSTATION_QTY
OPTIMUM_CREWING_QTY
PER_PERSON_THROUGHPUT_RATE
CREATE_USERID
CREATE_DATE
MOD_USERID
   BOM -PDM Recon Page 815    
MOD_USERID
MOD_DATE
RULE_ACTION_TYPE:
RULE_ACTION_TYPE_ID
ACTION_DESCR
RULE_PRECEDENCE_SEQ
SECURITY_ROLE:
ROLE_ID
ROLE_NAME
STEP_COMPONENT:
STEP_COMPONENT_ID
PRIMARY_ITEM_IND
COMP_SCRAP_PCT
TOTAL_SCRAP_PCT
USAGE_PROBABILITY_PCT
STEP_COMPONENT_GROUP_ID
ITEM_CODE_TYPE_ID
MATERIAL_UOM_ID
FORMULATION_QTY
OVERRIDE_FORMULATION_QTY
YIELD_QTY
LEAD_DAYS
PLANT_MATERIAL_ID
ALT_USAGE_PROBABILITY_PCT
STEP_COMPONENT_GROUP:
STEP_COMPONENT_GROUP_ID
STEP_COMPONENT_GROUP_TYPE
STEP_COMPONENT_PCT
SEQUENCE
GRP_COPY_IND
ON_SPEC_IND
MAIN_INGREDIENT_OVERRIDE_IND
FORMULATION_STEP_ID
SECONDS_STEP_COMPONENT_GROUP_ID
STOCK_ITEM_TYPE:
STOCK_ITEM_TYPE_ID
PLANT_ID
MATERIAL_TYPE
QTY_UPDATE_FLAG
LAST_UPDATE_DATE
   BOM -PDM Recon Page 816    
LAST_UPDATE_DATE
THROUGHPUT_OVRD_REASON:
THROUGHPUT_OVRD_REASON_ID
THROUGHPUT_OVRD_REASON_DESCR
MOD_USERID
MOD_DATE
CREATE_USERID
CREATE_DATE
UOM:
UOM_ID
SAP_UOM_ABBR
UOM_ISO_CODE
UOM_DESCR
MEASUREMENT_DESCR
USER_PLANT_XREF:
PORTAL_USER_ID
PLANT_ID
USER_PREFERENCE:
USER_PREFERENCE_ID
PORTAL_USER_ID
PREFERENCE_NAME
PREFERENCE_VALUE
USER_SECURITY_XREF:
PORTAL_USER_ID
ROLE_ID
VERSION_DETAIL:
VERSION_DETAIL_ID
USER_TEXT
DEVELOPER_TEXT
SEQ_NUM
VERSION_HEADER_ID
VERSION_HEADER:
VERSION_HEADER_ID
SEQ_NUM
DISPLAY_TEXT
VERSION_PATCH_ID
VERSION_PATCH:
VERSION_PATCH_ID
VERSION_NUM
RELEASE_TYPE_ID
RELEASE_DATE
   BOM -PDM Recon Page 817    
PATCH_DESCR
bom_portal_configuration:
id
config_key
config_value
data_type
version
is_active
created_at
updated_at
updated_by
update_reason
active_key
   BOM -PDM Recon Page 818    
Based on your interest in actively engaging with the stock market for enjoyment and your current 
portfolio, here's a detailed reallocation strategy focusing on high -growth and speculative investments:
1. Fidelity Go Account
Current Holdings : Diversified funds including Fidelity Flex 500 Index Fund (FDFIX), Fidelity Flex 
International Index Fund (FITFX), Fidelity Flex Mid Cap Index Fund (FLAPX), Fidelity Flex Small Cap Index 
Fund (FLXSX), and Fidelity Flex Municipal Income Fund (FUENX).•
Reallocation Strategy :
Fidelity Flex 500 Index Fund (FDFIX) : Maintain or slightly increase allocation to continue exposure 
to large -cap U.S. equities.•
Fidelity Flex International Index Fund (FITFX) : Consider increasing allocation to capitalize on 
potential growth in international markets.•
Fidelity Flex Mid Cap Index Fund (FLAPX) and Fidelity Flex Small Cap Index Fund (FLXSX) : 
Maintain current allocations to benefit from potential growth in mid and small -cap companies.•
Fidelity Flex Municipal Income Fund (FUENX) : Evaluate the necessity of this holding based on 
your risk tolerance and income needs; consider reallocating funds to higher -growth options if 
appropriate.••
2. Individual Account
Current Holdings : A mix of technology stocks (Apple, Amazon, NVIDIA, Palantir), ETFs (SPY), and other 
equities.•
Reallocation Strategy :
Apple Inc. (AAPL) : Continue holding; the stock has shown consistent performance with a current 
price of $243.35.•
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) : Maintain position; currently trading at $218.85, indicating strong 
market presence.•
NVIDIA Corp. (NVDA) : Hold or consider increasing allocation; trading at $141.92, NVIDIA remains 
a leader in AI and graphics processing.•
Palantir Technologies Inc. (PLTR) : Reassess based on performance; currently at $69.235, with 
recent volatility.•
SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust (SPY) : Maintain as a core holding for broad market exposure; currently 
priced at $605.57.•
Super Micro Computer Inc. (SMCI) : Evaluate performance; trading at $40.22, consider potential 
growth prospects.•
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) : Assess based on energy market trends; currently at $115.58. ••
3. 401(k) Account
Current Holdings : SS Target Retirement 2065 Fund. •
Reallocation Strategy :
Given the long -term horizon, maintaining the current allocation is appropriate. •
If seeking more aggressive growth, explore available higher -risk funds within the 401(k) plan. ••
Additional Speculative Investments
Tesla Inc. (TSLA) : Consider adding a position; currently trading at $350.76, Tesla has shown 
significant growth potential.•
C3.ai Inc. (AI) : Evaluate as a speculative AI play; trading at $38.69, it offers exposure to the 
growing AI sector.•
Grayscale Bitcoin Trust (GBTC) : For cryptocurrency exposure, consider a position; currently at 
$76.48, it provides indirect access to Bitcoin's performance.•12/4/2024
Wednesday, December 04, 2024 9:44 AM
   STOCKS Page 819    
$76.48, it provides indirect access to Bitcoin's performance.
Overall Recommendations
Diversification : Ensure a balanced mix of high -growth and speculative stocks to spread risk. •
Regular Monitoring : Keep a close eye on market trends and individual stock performance to make 
informed decisions.•
Risk Management : Be prepared for volatility, especially with speculative investments, and adjust 
allocations as needed.•
Note: Investing in the stock market involves risks, including the potential loss of principal. It's important 
to conduct thorough research or consult with a financial advisor before making investment decisions.
Sources
4o
You said:
completely restrategize my individual account 
ChatGPT said:
ChatGPT
To completely restrategize your Individual Account , I'll take a more aggressive and diversified approach, 
focusing on high -growth stocks, ETFs, and some speculative plays. Here's the breakdown:
Current Account Overview
Total Value : ~$11,869 •
Current Holdings : A mix of tech -heavy stocks, ETFs, and some underperforming positions. •
Goal : Optimize for growth and excitement while maintaining diversification.•
New Strategy
Growth Tech Stocks (40% of portfolio, $4,748) :
Apple (AAPL) : Keep $1,200 invested. Apple is a solid performer with long -term growth potential in 
hardware, services, and AI.•
Amazon (AMZN) : Keep $1,200 invested. Amazon dominates e -commerce and cloud computing, 
offering significant growth.•
NVIDIA (NVDA) : Increase to $1,200. NVIDIA leads in AI and GPUs, making it a high -growth stock. •
Microsoft (MSFT) : Add $1,148. Microsoft is a leader in cloud computing and AI, complementing 
your tech -heavy investments.•
Speculative Plays (20% of portfolio, $2,374) :
Tesla (TSLA) : Allocate $1,000. Tesla is a volatile but high -upside play in EVs and AI. •
C3.ai (AI) : Allocate $500. A speculative bet on the AI revolution. •
DraftKings (DKNG) : Allocate $874. Online sports betting is a growing sector with high 
revenue potential.•
Broad Market ETFs (30% of portfolio, $3,561) :
SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust (SPY) : Allocate $2,500. Provides market -wide exposure and 
stability.•
ARK Innovation ETF (ARKK) : Allocate $1,061. Focuses on disruptive technology and 
innovation.•
Dividend and Value Stocks (10% of portfolio, $1,186) :
Exxon Mobil (XOM) : Allocate $500. Energy exposure with a solid dividend. •
Procter & Gamble (PG) : Allocate $686. A defensive, dividend -paying consumer 
goods giant.•••
Portfolio Rationale••
   STOCKS Page 820    
Portfolio Rationale
Growth Focus : Heavily weighted toward tech leaders (Apple, Amazon, NVIDIA, 
Microsoft) and speculative opportunities (Tesla, C3.ai) to maximize potential upside.1.
Speculative Plays : Introduces volatility for excitement but caps exposure at 20% to 
manage risk.2.
Broad Diversification : ETFs like SPY and ARKK ensure diversification across industries 
and innovative sectors.3.
Stability and Income : Dividend and value stocks like Exxon Mobil and Procter & 
Gamble provide some stability and regular income.4.
Next Steps
Reallocate funds by selling underperformers (e.g., Palladyne AI) and redistributing 
cash to align with this strategy.1.
Monitor speculative plays closely; set stop -loss orders to protect capital. 2.
Review portfolio quarterly to assess performance and rebalance as needed.3.
Let me know if you’d like more details or adjustments!
4o
What specific speculative stocks to explore?
How to balance tech -heavy portfolios?
ChatGPT can make mistakes. Check important info.
   STOCKS Page 821    
Suzanna Hartrick Hedden
Jennifer Bray
Nadia White
Valerie Whitman
Carlinda M. Pacheco
Rochelle Kirk
Kayla J Sherman
Queenie BeValerie Whitman1.
Rochelle Kirk2.
Kayla Sherman3.
Carlinda M. Pacheco4.
Nadia White5.
Suzanna Hartrick Hedden6.
7.Friday, September 20, 2024 12:28 PM
   Personal Page 822    
"Casual Connections NWA."•
Group Description:
Clearly outline the purpose of the group in the description. You can use phrases like "for 
singles looking for no -strings -attached connections in a safe and respectful environment."•
Include a disclaimer about respecting boundaries and consent, and that harassment or 
inappropriate behavior will not be tolerated.•
Remind members that while the group is for casual interactions, it should still maintain 
respectful communication and behavior.•
Group Settings:
Privacy : Set the group to "Private" so only members can see the content. •
Membership Approval : Require admin or moderator approval for new members to 
ensure a level of quality and adherence to group guidelines.•
Post Approval : Turn on post approval by admins/moderators to monitor what content 
gets shared in the group.•
Rules & Guidelines:
Set clear rules around consent, respectful behavior, and communication.•
Prohibit sharing of private information (like nudes) publicly in the group to avoid 
potential issues with privacy and legal concerns.•
State that any inappropriate messages outside of agreed boundaries will lead to 
removal from the group.•
Moderation Team:
If possible, recruit trusted moderators to help you manage the group, 
especially as it grows. Moderators can help maintain the vibe of the group 
and ensure that all members follow the rules.•
Content Strategy:
Post icebreakers and discussion topics to keep the group engaging. 
For instance, fun prompts, casual meet -up ideas, or tips on 
maintaining open, honest communication.•
Keep the atmosphere light and playful, while reinforcing the 
importance of respect.•
Compliance with Facebook Guidelines:
Be mindful of Facebook's community standards, especially 
regarding adult content and explicit material. Keep the 
group's activities focused on consent and safe interactions.•1.1.
Starting and managing a group like this takes effort to keep the 
community safe and aligned with its purpose, but with the right balance, it 
can become a place where people feel comfortable exploring casual 
connections.1.1.1.1.Spicy Singles NWA
Tuesday, September 24, 2024 10:28 AM
   Personal Page 823    
Hey everyone!
We could really use some help this Tuesday to set up for the Luxella event happening on Friday. We're 
looking for extra hands and ladders to hang some lights and assist with other tasks. If you're available to 
help, please DM me and I'll send you the address. I'm planning on being up there around 5:30 or so! 
I can provide the address to anyone that needs it. P
Thanks so much in advance!
Josh McGrew
14090 Canal St, Rogers, AR 72758
Private  · Only people who are invited
Caleb Thieme
Shailendra Kumar Saini
Josh mcgrewLuxella
Monday, September 30, 2024 9:01 AM
   Personal Page 824    
This isn't THAT kind of singles group; it's a social community designed for singles to connect in a 
relaxed group setting, with no pressure for anything beyond friendship and companionship.
Despite the emphasis on a laid -back atmosphere rather than dating (or perhaps because of it!), 
this approach has successfully led to many successful romantic relationships, reminiscent of how 
our parents met -organically and face -to-face.
The concept is straightforward: dating apps often fall short due to endless swiping, awkward 
one-on-one conversations, or the disappointment of online chemistry not translating offline. 
Our solution? The chance to meet REAL singles that live in Washington or Benton county (no 
out of towners allowed!) at one of our nightly Meet -ups!
Queenie Be is revolutionizing how singles in Northwest Arkansas meet and mingle. It has 
fostered countless friendships and sparked many romantic connections. Will you be next?
This is a place to flirt or get to know ppl in a low stress environment. Empathize with other 
singles, not argue them into believing the way you do about a topic, or bring them down with 
negativity. There is plenty of that out there in the world, this is a positive environment.
2
I will not dm or post sexual photos or comments
You know exactly what I'm talking about. The eggplants and the melons and the peaches and 
the tacos. Admin is informed you did this? You're out. Do better.
3
I won't make disparaging comments about ANYONE
This is a nice place, leave your petty at the door.
4
I will not discuss religion or politics
PARTICULARLY in the intro posts. There are amazing humans on both sides of the aisle. This is a 
place with a positive vibe, to leave judgement or polarizing subjects aside.
5
I won't post about my business/solicit finances
Other than in the group chat specifically for this.
6
I understand admin decides...
Those who stay and those who go. We want to eliminate those that are: not single, who aren't 
kind and uplifting to other members, clean and well -groomed, aren't positive in the group, who 
are untrustworthy, players, catfish, overly sexual, or who don't meet qualities of high -quality.
7
Sharing Screenshots forbidden
We want the group members to feel safe chatting and posting without worrying that their boss 
or ex or family members or anyone else are going to see it. Respect and decency, Please!
8
IF YOU THREATEN AN ADMIN YOU'LL BE REPORTED TO FB
And removed and blocked.
9
Admin retain the right to remove any member!
At any time and for any reason, without explanation, upon unanimous moderator/admin vote.
10
We WILL post group photos PUBLICLYQueenie Connects Brand
Monday, October 07, 2024 8:54 AM
   Personal Page 825    
We WILL post group photos PUBLICLY
We will post group photos, potentially showing you, to the website and the facebook/insta/tik 
tok/social media pages at our discretion, may also use for marketing material. IF YOU DON'T 
WANT YOUR PHOTOS POSTED PUBLICLY, THEN REMOVE YOURSELF FROM ANY GROUP PHOTO 
AND TELL PHOTOGRAPHER NOT TO INCLUDE YOU.
   Personal Page 826    
Club Type Brand (Make/Model) Relative Distance
Driver Taylormade M2 9.5 200-230
3 wood Dunlop Quattro 190-220
5 wood Dunlop Quattro 195-200
4 iron Titleist 718 AP2 160-180
5 iron Titleist 718 AP2 150-175
6 iron Titleist 718 AP2 145-160
7 iron Titleist 718 AP2 135-155
8 iron Titleist 718 AP2 130-145
9 iron Titleist 718 AP2 120-140
Pitching 
wedgeTitleist 718 AP2 110-130
56 wedge Cleveland 900 Tour Action 95-115
60 wedge Cleveland 556 Tour Action <= 100
Putter Oddysey White Hot #1
Golf Ball Titleist Pro V 1 xFacility Price w/ Cart Price Walking
Links of Springdale 25.36 15.37
Links of Fayetteville 28.08 17.56
Links of Rainbow Curve 28.02 17.52
Links of Bentonville 23.09 13.14
Lakeside Village 22.98 10.98
Brush Creek 22.00 12.00
Hey guys, just a heads up   
We’re hitting the greens at Brush Creek tomorrow, 10/12/2024, at 9:00 AM . The fee is $22.00 for 9 
holes with a cart.
Brush Creek Golf Course
Address: 6220 Har Ber Ave, Springdale, AR 72762
Make sure to arrive on  me and bring your A  game! See you all there!  
Hey guys, just a heads up   
We’re hitting the greens at Brush Creek tomorrow, 10/12/2024, at 9:00 AM . The fee is $22.00 for 9 
holes.
Address:
Brush Creek Golf Course
6220 Har Ber Ave, Springdale, AR 72762
For those who want to do both, we’ll be heading to Quiver Archery Range at 1:00 PM .
Address:
Quiver Archery Range
1701 SW F St, Bentonville, AR 72712
Time slots are for an hour, but you can extend your time if you want. Remember, closed -toe shoes are a 
must; sandals are not allowed .
Make sure to arrive on  me and bring your A  game! See you all there!   
Hey guys, just a heads up   
We’re hitting the greens at Brush Creek tomorrow, 10/12/2024, at 9:00 AM . The fee is $22.00 for 9 
holes, and that includes the cart. Then, for those of you wanting to do some Archery, The fee for archery 
is $20 per session . Time slots are for an hour, but you can extend your time if you want. Remember, 
closed -toe shoes are a must; sandals are not allowed .
Address:
Brush Creek Golf Course
6220 Har Ber Ave, Springdale, AR 72762
For those who want to do both, we’ll be heading to Quiver Archery Range at 1:00 PM .
Address:
Quiver Archery Range
1701 SW F St, Bentonville, AR 72712
Make sure to arrive on  me and bring your A  game! See you all there!   
Hey guys, just a heads up   
We’re hitting the greens at Brush Creek tomorrow, 10/12/2024, at 9:00 AM . PLEASE ARRIVE ON TIME 
OR EARLY The fee is $22.00 for 9 holes, and that includes the cart.
Make sure to bring drinks and a small cooler for golf! 
Address for Golf:
Brush Creek Golf CourseGolf
Monday, September 23, 2024 10:31 AM
   Personal Page 827    
Brush Creek Golf Course
6220 Har Ber Ave, Springdale, AR 72762
For those of you wanting to do some archery, Quiver Archery Range at 1:00 PM . the fee for archery is 
$20 per session . Time slots are for an hour, but you can extend your time if you want. Remember, 
closed -toe shoes are a must; sandals are not allowed . 
Address for Archery:
Quiver Archery Range
1701 SW F St, Bentonville, AR 72712
Make sure to arrive on  me and bring your A  game! See you all there!   
   Personal Page 828    
The Trails at the Crossings
Location: 6200 Watkins Ave, Springdale, AR •
•
Deposit: $350 •
Available Units: 
Legacy 2 -G:$1,295, 921 sq ft, 2 bed, 2 bath •
Legacy 2 -I:$1,305, 932 sq ft, 2 bed, 2 bath •
Legacy 2 -D:$1,275, 949 sq ft, 2 bed, 2 bath ••1.
Vantage Center North
Location: 4097 North Cadillac Drive #3, Fayetteville, AR •
Deposit: $350 •
Available Units: 
Legacy 2 -J:$1,295, 908 -956 sq ft, 2 bed, 2 bath •
Churchill 
2BR Unit: $1,385, 999 sq ft, 2 bed, 2 bath •
3BR Unit: $1,545, 1,256 sq ft, 3 bed, 3 bath •••2.
Trails at Paradise Valley
Location: 3911 Old Missouri Road, Fayetteville, AR •
Price: $1,295, $350 deposit •
Available Units: 
Legacy 2 -G:$1,345, 921 sq ft, 2 bed, 2 bath •
Legacy 2 -I:$1,345, 932 sq ft, 2 bed, 2 bath •
Legacy 2 -D:$1,345, 949 sq ft, 2 bed, 2 bath •
Legacy 2 -J:$1,295, 907 sq ft, 2 bed, 2 bath •
Legacy 2 -H:$1,355, 908 sq ft, 2 bed, 2 bath ••3.
Woodland Park
B2:$1,305 -$1,952 per month, 1,024 sq ft, 2 bed, 2 bath •
B3:$1,510 -$2,420 per month, 1,215 sq ft, 2 bed, 2.5 bath •4.
ARFAY N Valencia Ave 2670
Location: 2670 N Valencia Ave, Apt 4, Fayetteville, AR •
Rent: $1,195 •
Size: 1,100 sq ft •
Details: 3 bed, 2 bath •5.
Towne Park Apartments
Location: 257 Arborside Rd, Springdale, AR •
Available Units: 
B2:$1,261, 1,024 sq ft, 2 bed, 2 bath •
B3:$1,480, 1,215 sq ft, 2 bed, 2.5 bath ••6.
Townhomes 
Summit Townhomes
Location: 2600 W Kilimanjaro, Rogers, AR 1.Monday, October 28, 2024 8:14 AM
   Personal Page 829    
Location: 2600 W Kilimanjaro, Rogers, AR •
Details: More information needed for pricing and size. •
Page Living at Pinnacle Hills
Location: 5050 W Highland Knolls Rd, Rogers, AR •
Price Range: $1,565 -$1,725 •
Floor Plan: 2 bedrooms / 2.5 bathrooms •
Size: 1,277 sq ft (B2) •2.
Greg Homstad
IT Support
479.463.9780
Greg.Homstad@outlook.com
LinkedIn
Fayetteville, AR
NB
Noah Barfield<noahbarfield1@gmail.com >
Reply
Reply all
Forward
To:
You 
Wed 10/30/2024 9:16 AM
Uptown Terrrace -Rogers 1500 -https://www.apartments.com/uptown -terrace -apartments -
rogers -ar/tkyg8sb/
The Pure Lowell -https://www.apartments.com/pure -lowell -lowell -ar/ve50b7d/ <---did not look 
up exact location but this shit is nice for $1445( FRONT LOADER WASHER AND DRYERS) 
The Bowie -https://www.apartments.com/the -bowie -springdale -ar/s5h69h5/ -1400 ish, nice af, 
ALOT of openings around our move in data 
   Personal Page 830    
2. Uptown Terrace -Rogers, AR
Rent : Approximately $1,400 -$1,650 •
Amenities :
Swimming pool•
Fitness center•
Pet-friendly community•
Clubhouse with a resident lounge•
Outdoor grilling stations•
Business center with high -speed internet •
In-unit washer and dryer, spacious closets, and private balcony/patio••
Distance :
Nearest Grocery Store : Approx. 6 minutes' drive to Whole Foods Market •
I-49: Around 5 minutes••
3. Page Living -Rogers, AR
Rent : Approx. $1,300 -$1,600 •
Amenities :
Resort -style pool and sundeck •
24-hour fitness center•
Dog park and pet wash station•
Clubhouse with game room and coffee bar•
Business center•
Walking/biking trails•
In-unit washer and dryer, walk -in closets, private patio/balcony ••
Distance :
Nearest Grocery Store : About 5 minutes to Walmart Neighborhood Market •
I-49: Roughly 7 minutes••
4. The Trails at the Crossing -Rogers, AR
Rent : Around $1275 -1305 •
Amenities :
Private Patio or Balcony•
Fitness Center•
Putting Green••
Distance :
Nearest Grocery Store : About 7 minutes to Harps Food Stores •
I-49: Approx. 10 minutes••
5. Woodland Park -Rogers, AR
Rent : $1,200 -$1,600 •
Amenities :
Pool with sundeck•
24-hour fitness center•
Pet-friendly with dog park•
Community clubhouse with kitchen and lounge•
Outdoor grilling stations•
Playground•
In-unit washer/dryer connections, large closets, and balconies••
Distance :
Nearest Grocery Store : About 8 minutes to Walmart Supercenter •
I-49: Around 10 minutes••Thursday, October 31, 2024 9:14 AM
   Personal Page 831    
I-49: Around 10 minutes•
6. Hillcrest Village -Rogers, AR
Rent : Approximately $1,250 -$1,600 •
Amenities :
Garage•
Pool with outdoor lounge seating•
Fitness center•
Pet-friendly•
Community clubhouse•
Grilling area•
Walking trails and playground•
In-unit laundry and spacious closets••
Distance :
Nearest Grocery Store : About 6 minutes to ALDI •
I-49: Around 8 minutes•
•
•
••
   Personal Page 832    
Hillcrest Village
Maple
They vary on measurements roughly 
5:15 is when it starts getting dark
No tours after dark 
Application is Online 
They have some units available for the new year time
Uptown Terrace
Fairview or razorback
Has availability
Tours not available today next tuesday 11 or 1PM 
Stone Manor
Didn’t pick up
Fitzroy grove
Didn’t pickupTop five
Thursday, October 31, 2024 9:55 AM
   Personal Page 833    
Greenway
Dimensions:
11*10
Osage
Dimensions:
15*12The Grove Info
Tuesday, November 26, 2024 2:00 PM
   Personal Page 834    
I'd like your help in forecasting stock performance and identifying profitable investment opportunities. 
Please provide a detailed analysis of the current stock market, focusing on identifying trends, 
undervalued stocks, and sectors with the highest growth potential. Include:
Stock Forecasting: Predict the short -term (1 -3 months) and long -term (1 -3 years) performance of the 
top 10 stocks in the S&P 500, along with your reasoning.1.
Market Trends: Analyze macroeconomic indicators and current market conditions to predict which 
sectors (e.g., tech, healthcare, renewable energy) will outperform in the next year.2.
Valuation Insights: Identify undervalued stocks with strong fundamentals using metrics like P/E ratio, 
PEG ratio, and earnings growth potential.3.
Investment Strategy: Recommend investment strategies tailored to various risk tolerances —low-risk 
(dividend stocks, bonds), medium -risk (blue -chip growth stocks), and high -risk (emerging markets, 
speculative stocks).4.
Risk Assessment: Highlight potential risks or pitfalls in the current market, including geopolitical, 
economic, or industry -specific concerns.5.
Actionable Advice: Suggest specific buy, hold, or sell actions, including entry and exit points for 
maximum profitability.6.
Use quantitative data, recent market events, and historical patterns to support your recommendation
SPY
SPDR S&P500 ETF TRUST TRUST UNIT DEPOSITARY RECEIPT
AAPL
APPLE INC
JPM
JPMORGAN CHASE &CO. COM
AMZN
AMAZON.COM INC
GOOGL
ALPHABET INC CAP STK CL A
NVDA
NVIDIA CORPORATION COM
XOM
EXXON MOBIL CORP COM
PLTR
PALANTIR TECHNOLOGIES INC CL A
TSN
TYSON FOODS INC
SMCI
SUPER MICRO COMPUTER INC COM NEW
NA
NANO LABS LTD SHS NEW US$0.002 ISIN #KYG6391Y1281
Pending Activity
Account Total
$603.50
-$0.83Friday, December 13, 2024 10:29 AM
   Personal Page 835    
-$0.83
-$3.32
-0.14%
+$15.96
+0.66%
$2,414.00
20.98%
4
$599.51
$2,398.04
Low$464.12High$609.07
$246.59
-$1.37
-$5.48
-0.56%
+$60.60
+6.54%
$986.36
8.57%
4
$231.44
$925.76
Low$164.08High$250.80
$239.945
-$1.585
-$3.17
-0.66%
-$19.93
-3.99%
$479.89
4.17%
2
$249.91
$499.82
Low$159.77High$254.31
$226.90
-$2.07
   Personal Page 836    
-$2.07
-$12.42
-0.91%
+$104.64
+8.32%
$1,361.40
11.83%
6
$209.46
$1,256.76
Low$144.05High$231.20
$190.70
-$1.26
-$7.56
-0.66%
+$148.20
+14.87%
$1,144.20
9.95%
6
$166.00
$996.00
Low$129.69High$195.61
$132.9366
-$4.4034
-$37.54
-3.21%
-$95.51
-7.78%
$1,133.28
9.85%
8.525
$144.14
$1,228.79
   Personal Page 837    
Low$47.32High$152.89
$110.9898
-$0.8302
-$3.45
-0.75%
-$38.80
-7.77%
$461.16
4.01%
4.155
$120.33
$499.96
Low$95.77High$126.34
$73.26
+$0.06
+$0.96
+0.08%
+$104.16
+9.75%
$1,172.16
10.19%
16
$66.75
$1,068.00
Low$15.66High$80.91
$61.22
+$0.02
+$0.52
+0.03%
+$20.91
+1.31%
$1,613.25
14.02%
26.3517
$60.43
$1,592.34
   Personal Page 838    
Low$49.97High$66.88
$36.17
-$1.76
-$8.80
-4.65%
+$0.85
+0.47%
$180.85
1.57%
5
$36.00
$180.00
Low$17.25High$122.90
$9.11
+$0.96
+$57.60
+11.77%
+$91.80
+20.18%
$546.60
4.75%
60
$7.58
$454.80
Low$2.75High$47.50
$11.09
-$22.66
-0.20%
+$392.88
+3.54%
$11,504.24
Skip to Main Content.
Fidelity.com Home
CUSTOMER SERVICE
PROFILE
   Personal Page 839    
PROFILE
OPEN AN ACCOUNT
FIDELITY ASSISTANT
LOG OUT
Accounts & Trade
Planning & Advice
News & Research
Products
Why Fidelity
My portfolio summary page
Trade
Transfer
Pay Bills
Quote
Messages(3)
As of Dec -13-2024 11:26 a.m. ET
The info for the selected account(s) is displayed in the account details region. Activate the link 
for the account group or individual account you want to view.
All accounts
, All accounts balance:$17,726.49
, Fidelity accounts balance:$16,128.49 in Fidelity accounts
Investment
account name:Individual , account number:Z32290773
, balance:$11,504.24
, gains/losses: -$22.66 ( -0.20%)
Retirement
account name:TYSON 401(K) , account number:34091
, balance:$1,079.50
, gains/losses: -$4.69 ( -0.43%)
Professionally managed
account name:Gregory's Individual Fidelity Go , account number:Y84189177
, balance:$3,538.41
, gains/losses: -$20.37 ( -0.57%)
Education
   Personal Page 840    
Education
account name:Individual -529 -TOD , account number:624786853
, balance:$0.14
, gains/losses: $0.00 (0.00%)
Stock plans
account name:TYSON NQ ESPP , account number:Employee Stock Purchase Plan
, balance:$0.00
Non -Fidelity
, balance:$1,598.00
account name:Simply Savings 4
, balance:$119.00
As of Nov -11-2024 3:58 p.m. ET
account name:Simply Checking 3
, balance: -$2.00
As of Nov -11-2024 3:58 p.m. ET
account name:Simply 0002
, balance:$1,481.00
As of Nov -11-2024 3:58 p.m. ET
Open an account
Link an external account
Accounts
Information about selected account(s):TYSON 401(K)
401K: 34091
Summary
Positions
Activity & Orders
Analysis
Positions
Overview
Dividend View
As of Dec -13-2024 11:29 a.m. ET
Search Positions
more information
Filter Positions
Available Actions
Positions screen reader user recommendations -For best screen reader user experience, please 
unpin the symbol column. You can do that by going to settings and unchecking the "Pin Symbol 
column to the left" checkbox. The grid can be navigated using either screen reader browse 
mode, (using table navigation commands), or using the arrow keys to navigate between cells (in 
application/forms mode). Pressing spacebar or enter with focus on a cell in a position row 
opens a drawer in the following row, focus is placed on the first button in that drawer. It's best 
to navigate the drawer using screen reader browse mode, especially if you want to review the 
static research data under the tabs.
Symbol
Last Price
Last Price Change
$ Today's Gain/Loss
   Personal Page 841    
$ Today's Gain/Loss
% Today's Gain/Loss
$ Total Gain/Loss
% Total Gain/Loss
Current Value
% of Account
Quantity
Average Cost Basis
Cost Basis Total
52-Week Range
Account: TYSON 401(K) 34091
857480438
Not Priced Today
SS TRGT RET 2065 IV
Account Total
Not Priced Today
$15.18
-$0.066
-$4.69
-0.43%
+$23.38
+2.21%
$1,079.50
100.00%
71.113
$14.85
$1,056.12
--
-$4.69
Not Priced Today
-0.43%
+$23.38
+2.21%
$1,079.50
Important Information
Indicates that the security has not priced today. Some securities, such as mutual funds, 
are not priced until after the market closes.
   Personal Page 842    
are not priced until after the market closes.
Indicates an Earnings event exists within 5 calendar days. Earnings beat or miss is 
based on the actual earnings compared to the I/B/E/S consensus estimate.
Indicates a Dividend or Capital Gains Distribution exists.
Indicates that the security has not priced today. Some securities, such as mutual funds, are not 
priced until after the market closes.
Content and data provided by various third parties and Fidelity. Terms of Use
Performance data shown represents past performance and is no guarantee of future results. 
Investment return and principal value will fluctuate, so investors may have a gain or loss 
when shares are sold. Current performance may be higher or lower than what is quoted, and 
investors should visit the performance page for most recent month -end performance.
You could lose money by investing in a money market fund. Although the fund seeks to 
preserve the value of your investment at $1.00 per share, it cannot guarantee it will do so. An 
investment in the fund is not a bank account and is not insured or guaranteed by the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation or any other government agency. Fidelity Investments and its 
affiliates, the fund’s sponsor, is not required to reimburse the fund for losses, and you should 
not expect that the sponsor will provide financial support to the fund at any time, including 
during periods of market stress.
Fidelity's government and U.S. Treasury money market funds will not impose a fee upon the 
sale of your shares.
Options trading entails significant risk and is not appropriate for all investors. Certain complex 
options strategies carry additional risk. Before trading options, please read Characteristics and 
Risks of Standardized Options . Supporting documentation for any claims, if applicable, will be 
   Personal Page 843    
Risks of Standardized Options . Supporting documentation for any claims, if applicable, will be 
furnished upon request.
Fidelity does not provide legal or tax advice. The information herein is general and educational 
in nature and should not be considered legal or tax advice. Tax laws and regulations are 
complex and subject to change, which can materially impact investment results. Fidelity cannot 
guarantee that the information herein is accurate, complete, or timely. Fidelity makes no 
warranties with regard to such information or results obtained by its use, and disclaims any 
liability arising out of your use of, or any tax position taken in reliance on, such information. 
Consult an attorney or tax professional regarding your specific situation.
Fidelity Stock Plan Services, LLC, provides recordkeeping and/or administrative services to your 
company's equity compensation plan, in addition to any services provided directly to the plan 
by your company or its service providers.
Investment advisory services are provided through Fidelity Personal and Workplace Advisors 
LLC (FPWA), a registered investment adviser, for a fee. Brokerage services are provided through 
Fidelity Brokerage Services LLC (FBS). Both are Fidelity Investments companies. Fidelity advisors 
are licensed representatives of FPWA and registered representatives of FBS. Whether a Fidelity 
advisor provides advisory or brokerage services to you will depend on the products and services 
you choose.
IMPORTANT: The projections or other information generated by the Planning & Guidance 
Center's Retirement Analysis regarding the likelihood of various investment outcomes are 
hypothetical in nature, do not reflect actual investment results, and are not guarantees of 
future results. Your results may vary with each use and over time.
Fidelity Crypto®is offered by Fidelity Digital Assets ℠. Investing involves risk, including risk of 
total loss. Crypto as an asset class is highly volatile, can become illiquid at any time, and is for 
investors with a high risk tolerance. Crypto may also be more susceptible to market 
manipulation than securities. Crypto is not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation or the Securities Investor Protection Corporation. Investors in crypto do not benefit 
from the same regulatory protections applicable to registered securities. Fidelity Crypto®
accounts and custody and trading of crypto in such accounts are provided by Fidelity Digital 
Asset Services, LLC, which is chartered as a limited purpose trust company by the New York 
State Department of Financial Services to engage in virtual currency business (NMLS ID 
1773897). Brokerage services in support of securities trading are provided by Fidelity Brokerage 
Services LLC ("FBS"), and related custody services are provided by National Financial Services 
LLC ("NFS"), each a registered broker -dealer and member NYSE and SIPC. Neither FBS nor NFS 
offer crypto as a direct investment nor provide trading or custody services for such assets. 
Fidelity Crypto and Fidelity Digital Assets are service marks of FMR LLC. Fidelity Crypto®risk 
disclosure | Fidelity Crypto®complaints & disclosures
Before investing in any mutual fund or exchange -traded fund, you should consider its 
investment objectives, risks, charges, and expenses. Contact Fidelity for a prospectus, an 
offering circular, or, if available, a summary prospectus containing this information. Read it 
carefully.
984557.14.1
Additional important information
Copyright 1998 -2024 FMR LLC. All rights reserved.
Terms of Use Privacy Security Site Map Accessibility Contact Us Share Your Screen
   Personal Page 844    
This is for persons in the U.S. only.
   Personal Page 845    
Account: Gregory's Individual Fidelity Go Y84189177
Fidelity Go®
Cash
HELD IN MONEY MARKET
FDFIX
Not Priced Today
FIDELITY FLEX 500 INDEX FUND
FLAPX
Not Priced Today
FIDELITY FLEX MID CAP INDEX FUND
FLXSX
Not Priced Today
FIDELITY FLEX SMALL CAP INDEX FUND
FITFX
Not Priced Today
FIDELITY FLEX INTERNATIONAL INDEX
FUENX
Not Priced Today
FID FLEX MUNICIPAL INCOME FUND
Account Total
Not Priced Today
$19.70
0.56%
$25.89
-$0.14
-$9.90
-0.54%
+$16.94
+0.93%
$1,829.38
51.70%
   Personal Page 846    
51.70%
70.66
$25.65
$1,812.44
Low$19.99High$26.05
$19.85
-$0.08
-$0.61
-0.41%
-$3.57
-2.32%
$150.70
4.26%
7.592
$20.32
$154.27
Low$15.96High$20.37
$17.08
-$0.24
-$1.96
-1.39%
-$3.76
-2.63%
$139.18
3.93%
8.149
$17.54
$142.94
Low$13.70High$17.65
$13.73
-$0.09
-$5.83
   Personal Page 847    
-$5.83
-0.66%
+$13.59
+1.55%
$888.55
25.11%
64.716
$13.52
$874.96
Low$12.13High$14.51
$9.91
-$0.04
-$2.07
-0.41%
-$0.51
-0.10%
$510.90
14.44%
51.554
$9.92
$511.41
Low$9.65High$10.01
-$20.37
Not Priced Today
-0.57%
+$22.69
+0.65%
$3,538.41
   Personal Page 848    
Creating an AI chatbot to simulate engaging conversations on platforms like Seeking Arrangements 
requires careful planning, particularly because the interactions need to feel authentic and personal to 
maintain interest. Here's a breakdown of how you could approach building such a chatbot:
1. Plan the Chatbot's Capabilities
The chatbot should:
Respond in real -time to messages. •
Generate unique and engaging replies to maintain interest.•
Be able to adapt to different tones or topics of conversation.•
Handle multiple conversations simultaneously.•
Remember key details about the individuals (e.g., their interests, preferences, and previous 
messages) to make the responses feel personalized.•
2. Choose a Platform for Development
You can use the following technologies to build your chatbot:
Natural Language Processing (NLP): Use tools like OpenAI’s GPT or similar large language models. •
Chatbot Frameworks: Consider platforms like:
Dialogflow (Google)•
Microsoft Bot Framework•
Rasa (Open Source)••
Custom Implementation: Host your AI using cloud services like AWS, Azure, or Google Cloud. •
3. Define the Flow and Personality
Tone: Write a detailed personality profile for the chatbot (e.g., playful, flirty, attentive). •
Response Types: Define typical message formats:
Small talk: "How’s your day going, handsome?"•
Compliments: " ou’re so impressive with everything you’ve achieved!"•
Personal questions: "What’s been the highlight of your week?"•
Engaging follow -ups: "That’s amazing! Tell me more about it." ••
Boundaries: Ensure the chatbot doesn’t overpromise or respond inappropriately. •
4. Gather Training Data
Use transcripts of similar conversations (if ethical and permitted) to fine -tune the chatbot. •
Incorporate pre -trained models with conversational datasets. •
5. Build the Chatbot
Language Model Fine -Tuning:Use OpenAI’s API or alternatives like Cohere to fine -tune responses 
for your specific purpose.•
Conversation Memory: Implement a database (e.g., MongoDB, Firebase) to store details about 
each user. This helps the bot remember personal details, maintaining the illusion of intimacy.•
Real -Time Messaging Integration: Use APIs to integrate the chatbot with messaging platforms (if •AI Chat Bot for ALI
Friday, January 24, 2025 4:32 PM
   Personal Page 849    
Real -Time Messaging Integration: Use APIs to integrate the chatbot with messaging platforms (if 
applicable).•
6. Monitor and Improve
Set up a feedback loop to monitor the chatbot’s responses and tweak the AI model based on real -
world interactions.•
Implement moderation or escalation for responses needing human intervention.•
7. Compliance and Ethics
Platforms like Seeking Arrangements have terms of service that may prohibit the use of automation 
tools or bots. Ensure:
You have explicit permission to use a chatbot on the platform.•
The chatbot complies with any regulations or guidelines (such as disclosing it’s not human, if 
required).•
Sample Tools for Development
Programming Language: Python (with libraries like transformers and chatterbot ). •
APIs: Twilio, Telegram API, or custom REST APIs for real -time messaging. •
Hosting: Use cloud services for scalability. •
   Personal Page 850    
Water, Trash, Sewer –85.92
Electric -$247.98Bills 3/12/25
Wednesday, March 12, 2025 7:42 AM
   Personal Page 851    
E-Commerce through Direct Fullfillment
Polo
Polo –Ecommerce past 30 years
What works what doesn’t, patterning somebody else smarter has done
Entry level 2 -5 year project paid $4 grand a month 5 -10 hours of work a week. 
They have a business team. 
I think there's a potential 
Ideal side hustle
Proven track record of working 
Optimal opportunity would be mentorship. Wisdom and guidance Learn the skills you need to 
learn to be effective. a.
Flexible works with schedule add to plate b.
Sell a product that market's already created, I don’t want to reinvent the wheel. Home health 
beauty and agriculture. Consumer plant based usd organic good ingredients in product bans 
excess neutralite artistry. The market is there c.
Polo not specific want's to travel d.
Polo all of the above. e.
So Christian grew up in this, private school homeschooled opportunities. 
First person to go to college in his family psychology. Relationships are everything. 
Graduate student at the UofA. 
Matt is christians godfather was able to retire in his 40's from walmart corporate, 
Danny made 250,000 It’s a scam it’s a pyramid scheme whatever. 
Skillset End result that they created at the end of their life
3 pillars:
5 year period great success
50% increase in pay d
Mentorship –coachable and teachable 
Apprenticeship Program –Complimentary entry level to the business. 
10% of risk tarnished 
Direct selling network modeling as a business model 
Scalable business –customer base repeat order schedule subscription model 100 customers 
Scaling and having a team of people selling because of your referral 
A small team of 10 can put you at significant amount of income 
The skills it takes to scale a business
Robert Kiwasoki Rich dad Poor dad formost authority with passive income 18 books 
Catch flow quadrant 
Business for the 21stcentury
Tristian Gazel in dallas fortworth. He's doing a business prospectus meeting. Just to see his perspective 
and to get a better feel Direct Fulfillment 
Monday, June 23, 2025 10:58 AM
   Personal Page 852    
Got it! Here's a clear and organized travel itinerary for your trip from July 26 to August 11 , including all 
relevant travel info, lodging, and action items:
  Greg Homstad – Trip I nerary
Dates: July 26 –August 11, 2025
Destinations: San Francisco, CA ➝Seattle, WA ➝Bremerton, WA
 Outbound Flight –Saturday, July 26
Airline: Delta Air Lines •
Route: XNA (Northwest Arkansas) ➝SFO (San Francisco) •
Time: 11:18 AM –7:36 PM •
Cost: $198 or 13,145 Delta SkyMiles•
Class: Main Cabin •
✅Booked
  San Francisco Stay
Dates: July 26 –August 8 •
Working remotely: Yes (starting 7:00 AM PT / 9:00 AM CT) •
PTO Day: Friday, August 8 (for travel to Seattle) •
  Mid Trip Flight  –  riday, August 8 (PTO)
Airline: Alaska Airlines •
Route: SFO ➝SEA •
Time: 11:25 AM –1:37 PM •
Cost: $229 or 15,220 Alaska points•
Class: Business •
✅Booked
 Bremerton Travel Options –August 8
Option 1: Bus
Pickup: Curbside Door 2, SEA Airport (Arrivals) •
Departure: 2:20 PM •
Arrival: 3:50 PM at Burwell 76 Gas Station, Bremerton •
Fare: $36•
Next Step: Uber or ride to Airbnb •
Option 2: Ferry
To Terminal: Taxi ($45, 18 min) or Uber ( $65, ~25 min) •
Departure Times:•
2:50 PM ➝3:50 PM •
5:30 PM ➝6:30 PM •
7:50 PM ➝8:50 PM •
Fare (walk -on): $10.25 •Trip to California
Tuesday, July 01, 2025 2:59 PM
   Personal Page 853    
Fare (walk -on): $10.25 •
Arrival: Bremerton Ferry Terminal (211 1st St) •
Next Step: Walk/Uber/pickup to Airbnb •
 Action: Choose between bus and ferry closer to travel date
 Airbnb –Bremerton, WA
Address: 607 Shore Dr., Manette, WA •
Host: Doug –(408) 307 -6226 •
Confirmed Guests: Doug, Carmel, Natalie, Leah, Arlyce •
Possibles:  P, Dale’s Mom, Paula & Dan •
Note: Judy & Dale staying with Travis•
 Travis' House (Alt Lodging / Pickup Contact)
Address: 2114 11th St, Bremerton, WA 98337 •
Phone: Travis –(503) 798 -1122 •
 Other Contacts:
Grandma Arlyce: (503) 507 -9146 •
JP:(619) 244 -3253 —Call ahead to reconnect / coordinate stay •
  Return Flight Op ons – Choose One
 Option 1: Delta –Not Ideal
Date: Sunday, August 10•
Time: 7:10 AM ➝5:25 PM •
Cost: $370 or 24,612 Chase points•
Flights: DL2816 ➝DL3620 •
❌Long day + early departure•
 Option 2: United –Best Sunday Option
Date: Sunday, August 10•
Time: 12:49 PM ➝8:35 PM (layover in Denver) •
Cost: $558•
Includes: 1 free carry -on •
✅Good Sunday timing, no PTO needed•
 Option 3: American Airlines –Budget -Friendly
Date: Monday, August 11•
Time: 1:32 PM ➝11:10 PM •
Layover: 1.29 hrs in Chicago (ORD) •
Cost: $390 (use AA card or PPO)•
✅More relaxed, but requires 1 extra PTO day•
✅Action Items
✅Booked: XNA ➝SFO (July 26) •
✅Booked: SFO ➝SEA (August 8)
   Personal Page 854    
✅Booked: SFO ➝SEA (August 8) •
☐Decide: Bus or Ferry to Bremerton•
☐Call JP to coordinate stay/rideshare•
☐Confirm lodging: Airbnb or Travis•
☐Book return flight (United or AA recommended)•
Let me know if you'd like this in printable PDF , Google Calendar format , or added to your Notion board.
   Personal Page 855    
Single? Ready to Meet Other Local Singles in a Fun, No -Pressure Environment?
Queenie Be's Singles Community Guidelines
Welcome! This group is a laid -back community for singles to meet, connect, and make friends without 
the pressure of dating apps. While we're focused on creating a stress -free environment, many members 
have formed meaningful relationships —the kind your parents might’ve experienced, meeting face -to-
face. No out -of-towners —only local singles from Washington or Benton County, Arkansas.
This group is a positivity zone where we encourage members to lift each other up, form connections, 
and build friendships in a safe and relaxed setting. To maintain this vibe, we ask that you follow these 
simple guidelines:
1. Keep It Classy
No direct messages (DMs) or posts with sexual photos or comments. We all know what emojis and 
innuendos we’re talking about —if the admin catches it, you’re out. Let’s do better and respect each 
other.
2. No Disparaging Remarks
Keep it friendly. No negative comments or attacks on anyone, period. Leave your personal drama and 
pettiness at the door.
3. Leave Religion & Politics Out
These subjects can be divisive, especially in a place designed for connection. Save your opinions for 
other spaces —we’re here to bond, not debate.
4. No Unsolicited Business or Financial Requests
There's a separate chat for promoting businesses or side hustles. Keep it there, and nowhere else.
5. Respect Admin Decisions
Admins decide who stays and who goes. We’re eliminating anyone who isn’t single, who is overly 
negative, disrespectful, untrustworthy, or simply not here for the right reasons. We want people who 
are kind, uplifting, and high -quality.
6. No Sharing Screenshots
What happens in the group, stays in the group. Members should feel comfortable posting and chatting 
without fear of their conversations being shared outside the community.
7. No Threatening Admins
If you threaten an admin, you'll be reported to Facebook and immediately removed from the group.
8. Admin Reserve the Right to Remove Members
Admins can remove any member at any time for any reason, based on unanimous vote by moderators.
9. Group Photos May Be Shared Publicly
We will post group photos to our social media and marketing platforms. If you don’t want to be 
included, kindly step out of the shot and inform the photographer.Group Rules
Monday, October 07, 2024 9:11 AM
   Queenie Connects Page 856    
✅Best Platform Stack for "The Vibe"
 Facebook Group –Main Hub for Social Energy
Why it works:
Everyone already has it —low friction to join. •
Great for memes, photos, inside jokes, polls, and quick event invites.•
You can use Group Chats , Events , Reels , and Guides . •
Organic growth is easier if you post consistently with value + humor.•
How to use it:
Name: The Vibe –Singles 21 –35 | NWA Young Professionals •
Pin intro post with group rules + link to event calendar•
Share memes, event pics, questions like "What's your toxic dating trait?"•
Weekly themed threads ("Thirsty Thursday Check -In", "Weekend Flirt List", etc.) •
 Meetup –Legitimize Events + Attract New Members
Why it works:
People search Meetup for social/dating events when moving to a city or feeling stuck. •
Attracts high -quality members who are actually looking to meet in person. •
Meetup RSVPs feel more "real" and commitment -driven. •
Great for SEO and cross -posting to your FB group. •
How to use it:
Title: The Vibe NWA –Events for Singles, Flirty Friends & Fun Nights Out •
Add keywords: "singles in Fayetteville", "young professionals Bentonville", "low -pressure dating" •
Cross -promote: “ oin our  B group for spicy convos between events”•
Post 1–2 events/month at first (happy hour, low -pressure games, or vibe nights) •
 Instagram (Optional but Strong) –Brand Personality + Discovery
Why it helps:
Showcase photos from events, memes, behind -the-scenes •
Attracts people who don’t use  B or Meetup much•
Useful for ads and influencer partnerships later •
 Strategy: How They Work Together
Platform Purpose Sample Content/CTA
Facebook Daily engagement + culture Memes, polls, spicy threads, recap pics, rules
Meetup Event legitimacy + SEO reach Event listings, RSVP management
Instagram Branding + external discovery Highlights, Reels, DMs, promo collabsThe Vibe –A singles community for Young Professionals
Wednesday, July 09, 2025 2:06 PM
   Queenie Connects Page 857    
 Pro Tips
Give it a “friends -first” vibe , not a hookup group (but make it spicy). •
Use a unique group description like:
“A place for singles who want more than swipes —think happy hours, trivia nights, and flirt -friendly 
hangs for young professionals in NWA.”•
Offer a QR code or Linktree that connects all platforms. •
Host your first free event soon , even if it's just “Trivia + Chill” at a bar —you need photos of real people
to gain momentum.•
Collect emails early for future monetization (event reminders, partnerships, merch). •
Want Help With:
Naming + branding (logo, group name variants)?•
First month of content + events?•
Rules, onboarding messages, or mod setup?•
Let’s lock in The Vibe as the go -to community for young singles in NWA.
   Queenie Connects Page 858    
1. Who to Follow on LinkedIn
Here are some local influencers in Northwest Arkansas that Queenie could follow and potentially 
collaborate with to promote the singles group:
Anela Malik
Focuses on food, travel, and culture through her platform, Feed The Malik . She is deeply 
connected to the local community and promotes inclusivity and events happening across NWA. 
Anela’s content could be a great match, especially if the singles group engages in social activities 
around food and events •
(20) Anela Malik | LinkedIn•
Finding NWA
.1.
Samantha Gregory
Known as Munchin with Mantha , Samantha is a food influencer who highlights local restaurants 
and the culinary scene in NWA. Her large following and focus on community engagement make 
her a great fit for spreading the word about events and meetups 
I am Northwest Arkansas
.•2.
RIFFRAFF Boutique (@shopriffraff)
With a large following, this local boutique has a lifestyle and fashion focus that aligns with people 
who engage in social events. Collaborating with influencers associated with RIFFRAFF might help 
build visibility for Queenie’s group 
Promoty
.•3.
Impressions Online Boutique (@shopimpressions)
Another fashion -focused influencer with a big audience in NWA, this boutique frequently engages 
with young professionals and singles. Following their content might offer leads to more 
influencers or collaborations that align with your audience's interests •4.
NWA Daily (@nwarkansasdaily)
Focus: This account shares events, news, and updates relevant to the Northwest Arkansas area. 
It's a great way to stay connected with the community and promote upcoming singles meetups.•5.
Local Influencers & Personalities
Look for local entrepreneurs, event organizers, or community leaders in NWA (Northwest Arkansas). 
These people often have networks that align with local activities and could connect Queenie to larger 
audiences.
Relationship Coaches & Dating Experts
Following dating coaches or consultants can provide collaboration opportunities and relevant insights on 
creating attractive content for singles.
Local Business Pages & Social Groups
Follow pages like local chambers of commerce, restaurants, gyms, and lifestyle brands in NWA. They 
might attract singles who are active socially.
Event Venues and Social Spaces
Target The Amp, JJ's Live, or local meetup groups. Influencers attending events in these places might fit 
Queenie’s target demographic.
2. Single NWA Influencers to Approach
Below are examples of local influencer types and search strategies to find them:
Instagram Influencers in Fayetteville/Bentonville/Rogers:
Look for accounts tagged in posts at popular locations or venues, such as bars, hiking trails, or social 
events.
Search Instagram hashtags like:
#SingleInNWA
#NWASocialScene
#FayettevilleNightlife
#BentonvilleVibes
TikTok Influencers:
Look for creators based in NWA by exploring location -specific content.
Some influencers focus on lifestyle, fitness, or local adventures, which aligns well with singles seeking 
social connections.
LinkedIn Personalities:
Engage with content from NWA -based professionals posting about events, community engagement, and 
social groups.Anela MalikLinkedin
Monday, October 14, 2024 9:49 AM
   Queenie Connects Page 859    
social groups.
3. Sample Influencers to Look For
Food and Travel Bloggers: People who explore local venues, restaurants, and experiences.
Fitness Coaches or Yoga Instructors: These individuals often build communities and could have 
connections with singles.
Social Event Planners: Individuals involved in organizing community events or charity functions.
4. Strategy for Outreach
Engage with their content: Like and comment on posts to increase visibility.
DM them with a personalized message explaining the singles group’s mission and how it could be 
mutually beneficial.
Offer incentives such as event passes, special shoutouts, or sponsorship opportunities.
   Queenie Connects Page 860    
Daniel Hintz, Founder/CEO of Velocity Group + Co -owner of Bauhaus Biergarten
Sarah Goforth, Executive Director of the Office of Entrepreneurship and Innovations
Zoe Buonaiuto, PhD, Associate Director of Business Incubation, Office of Entrepreneurship & Innovation 
at University of Arkansas
Kristin Mann / Film Producer
Margaret Robinson Rutherford Ph.D., a clinical psychologist with thirty years of experience, is also an 
author and podcaster.
Anela Malik, NW Arkansas -based Influencer and Entrepreneur: Influencer & Entrepreneur | Upcoming 
book published by National Geographic | 2021 Black Women in Food Honoree
Marlon Blackwell, Arkansas -based architect's work "represents something very important at the core of 
architecture: a commitment to creating fully developed, beautifully shaped, and affordably made 
buildings,
Marlon Blackwell Arkansas -based architect's work "represents something very important at the core of 
architecture: a commitment to creating fully developed, beautifully shaped, and affordably made 
buildings,
Neil Greenhaw, Founder at Haxton Recording Studios
Joseph Nguyen aka The Hangry Pedaler: NWA Food Blogger
Danny Collins, NW Arkansas Outdoor Experience Designer, Founder/Master Guide, 37 North Expeditions
Lakeisha Edwards  -executive director of Art Ventures in Fayetteville
Chef Jennifer Hill Booker
Nick Jones (he, him, his), Owner/Barber, Trendsetter Barbershop and Salon, Fayetteville, AR
Graham Cobb, President and CEO at Greater Bentonville Area Chamber of Commerce
Lauren Greenlee’s water -related research and inventions have earned her national recognition, 
professor at UofA
Aricka Lewis was recently recognized as one of the 2019 UX Designers to Watch by Adobe. Aricka is 
passionate about inclusive design and helped launch the Northwest Arkansas chapter of the American 
Institute of Graphic Arts (AIGA),
Robin Atkinson, CEO of NWA Fashion Week
Kyle Peterson Executive Director at the Walton Family FoundationInfluencer List
Monday, October 14, 2024 11:08 AM
   Queenie Connects Page 861    
Kyle Peterson Executive Director at the Walton Family Foundation
Mo Elliott, Founder of Fayettechill
NWA.Daily
NWArkansasmamas
NWA Transplants
NWA Newbies
ThegoodlifeNWA
MunchinwithMantha
FindingNWA
EATNWA
TheNWALife
   Queenie Connects Page 862    
I want to create an AI Stock app that answers the question: If your question is "I have $XXXXXXX, what 
do I do?" or other "advice for my personal situation" questions, you should include relevant information, 
such as the following:
I'm 26 and live in America
I am employed and my total pretax salary is 72,500
I wish to use this money as passive income
My risk tolerance is moderately high for biggest short term returns
I have 8k in student loan debt. AI Stock App
Wednesday, February 26, 2025 4:04 PM
   AI stock APP Page 863    
### Project Timeline and Gameplan for AI Stock App
#### **Phase 1: Project Initiation (2 weeks)**
**Dates:** February 26, 2025 -March 11, 2025
-**Project Kickoff Meeting:** Discuss project objectives, scope, and deliverables.
-**Stakeholder Identification:** Identify all stakeholders and establish communication channels.
-**Requirement Gathering:** Collect detailed requirements from stakeholders.
-**Feasibility Study:** Assess the technical and financial feasibility of the project.
-**Project Plan:** Develop a detailed project plan, including timelines, milestones, and resource 
allocation.
#### **Phase 2: Design (4 weeks)**
**Dates:** March 12, 2025 -April 8, 2025
-**UI/UX Design:**
  -Design wireframes and mockups for mobile and web applications.
  -Conduct user feedback sessions to refine designs.
-**Architecture Design:**
  -Define the system architecture and technology stack.
  -Design database schema and data flow diagrams.
-**API Integration Planning:**
  -Identify third -party providers for real -time market data.
  -Plan for API integration and data handling.
#### **Phase 3: Development (12 weeks)**
**Dates:** April 9, 2025 -July 1, 2025
-**Sprint 1 (4 weeks):**
  -**Real -time Market Data:**
    -Implement real -time stock prices, charts, and market news.
    -Integrate data from multiple stock exchanges (NYSE, NASDAQ).
-**Sprint 2 (4 weeks):**
  -**AI -driven Stock Analysis and Recommendations:**
    -Develop algorithms for analyzing historical data and identifying trends.Project Timeline and Gameplan for AI Stock App
Wednesday, February 26, 2025 4:14 PM
   AI stock APP Page 864    
    -Develop algorithms for analyzing historical data and identifying trends.
    -Implement personalized stock recommendations based on user preferences and risk tolerance.
    -Integrate predictive analytics for forecasting stock performance.
-**Sprint 3 (4 weeks):**
  -**Portfolio Management:**
    -Implement features for creating and managing stock portfolios.
    -Develop functionality for tracking portfolio performance and generating reports.
  -**Notifications and Alerts:**
    -Implement notification system for significant market events, stock performance, and trading 
activities.
    -Allow users to customize alert settings.
#### **Phase 4: Testing (4 weeks)**
**Dates:** July 2, 2025 -July 29, 2025
-**Unit Testing:** Test individual components for functionality and performance.
-**Integration Testing:** Ensure all components work together seamlessly.
-**User Acceptance Testing (UAT):** Conduct testing sessions with a group of end -users to gather 
feedback and identify issues.
-**Bug Fixing:** Address any bugs or issues identified during testing.
#### **Phase 5: Deployment (2 weeks)**
**Dates:** July 30, 2025 -August 12, 2025
-**Deployment Preparation:**
  -Prepare deployment scripts and documentation.
  -Set up production environment.
-**Deployment:**
  -Deploy the application to production servers.
  -Conduct final testing to ensure everything is working as expected.
-**Launch:**
  -Officially launch the AI Stock App to users.
  -Monitor the application for any post -launch issues.
#### **Phase 6: Post -Launch Support (4 weeks)**
**Dates:** August 13, 2025 -September 9, 2025
-**User Support:**
  -Provide support to users for any issues or questions.
   AI stock APP Page 865    
  -Provide support to users for any issues or questions.
-**Performance Monitoring:**
  -Monitor application performance and user feedback.
-**Continuous Improvement:**
  -Plan for future updates and improvements based on user feedback and performance data.
### Gameplan
1. **Project Management:**
   -Assign a project manager to oversee the entire project.
   -Use project management tools (e.g., Jira, Trello) to track progress and manage tasks.
2. **Team Structure:**
   -**Design Team:** UI/UX designers to create the app's interface and user experience.
   -**Development Team:** Front -end and back -end developers to build the application.
   -**AI Specialists:** Data scientists and machine learning engineers to develop AI algorithms.
   -**Testing Team:** QA testers to ensure the application is bug -free and meets requirements.
3. **Communication:**
   -Schedule regular meetings (weekly or bi -weekly) to discuss progress, issues, and next steps.
   -Use communication tools (e.g., Slack, Microsoft Teams) for real -time collaboration.
4. **Documentation:**
   -Maintain detailed documentation for all phases of the project, including requirements, design, 
development, and testing.
5. **Risk Management:**
   -Identify potential risks and develop mitigation plans.
   -Monitor risks throughout the project and adjust plans as needed.
By following this timeline and gameplan, the AI Stock App project can be successfully completed, 
meeting all objectives and delivering a high -quality product to users.
   AI stock APP Page 866    
The AI Stock App aims to provide users with advanced tools and insights for stock market analysis and 
trading. The app will leverage artificial intelligence to offer personalized investment advice, real -time market 
data, predictive analytics, and automated trading features.
2. Objectives
To provide accurate and real -time stock market data. •
To offer AI -driven insights and recommendations for stock trading. •
To enhance user experience through intuitive design and personalized features.•
3. Scope
The scope of this project includes the development of a mobile and web application with the following 
features:
Real -time Market Data•
AI-driven Stock Analysis and Recommendations•
Portfolio Management (Manual Input as Fidelity doesn't allow API calls)•
Notifications and Alerts for current portfolio•
4. Deliverables
Mobile and web application for AI Stock App•
Real -time stock prices, charts, and market news•
AI-driven stock recommendations and predictive analytics•
Portfolio management features•
Notifications and alerts system•
5. Timeline
Phase 1: Project Initiation (2 weeks)
Dates: February 26, 2025 -March 11, 2025 Phase 2: Design (4 weeks) •
Dates: March 12, 2025 -April 8, 2025 Phase 3: Development (12 weeks) •
Dates: April 9, 2025 -July 1, 2025 Phase 4: Testing (4 weeks) •
Dates: July 2, 2025 -July 29, 2025 Phase 5: Deployment (2 weeks) •
Dates: July 30, 2025 -August 12, 2025 Phase 6: Post -Launch Support (4 weeks) •
Dates: August 13, 2025 -September 9, 2025 •
6. Team Structure
Project Manager: [Project Manager Name] •
UI/UX Designers: [Designer Names] •
Front -end Developers: [Developer Names] •
Back -end Developers: [Developer Names] •
AI Specialists: [AI Specialist Names] •
QA Testers: [Tester Names] •
7. Communication Plan
Weekly Meetings: Every Monday at 10:00 AM •
Bi-weekly Stakeholder Meetings: Every other Wednesday at 2:00 PM •
Communication Tools: Slack for real -time communication, Microsoft Teams for video conferencing •
Project Management Tool: Jira for task tracking and progress monitoring •
8. Risk Management
Risk Identification: Regularly identify potential risks and document them. •
Risk Mitigation: Develop and implement mitigation plans for identified risks. •
Risk Monitoring: Continuously monitor risks and adjust plans as necessary. •
9. Assumptions
Users have a basic understanding of stock trading and investment.•Project Kickoff
Wednesday, February 26, 2025 4:15 PM
   AI stock APP Page 867    
Users have a basic understanding of stock trading and investment.•
Users have access to the internet and compatible devices to initiate trades.•
10. Dependencies
Availability of real -time market data from third -party providers. •
   AI stock APP Page 868    
1. Project Overview
The AI Stock App aims to provide users with advanced tools and insights for stock market analysis and 
trading. The app will leverage artificial intelligence to offer personalized investment advice, real -time market 
data, predictive analytics, and automated trading features.
2. Objectives
To provide accurate and real -time stock market data. •
To offer AI -driven insights and recommendations for stock trading. •
To enhance user experience through intuitive design and personalized features.•
3. Scope
The scope of this project includes the development of a mobile and web application with the following 
features:
Real -time Market Data•
AI-driven Stock Analysis and Recommendations•
Portfolio Management (Manual Input as Fidelity doesn't allow API calls)•
Notifications and Alerts for current portfolio•
4. Functional Requirements
4.2 Real -time Market Data
The app must provide real -time stock prices, charts, and market news. •
The app must support data for multiple stock exchanges (e.g., NYSE, NASDAQ).•
4.3 AI -driven Stock Analysis and Recommendations
The app must analyze historical data to identify trends and patterns.•
The app must provide personalized stock recommendations based on user preferences and risk 
tolerance.•
The app must offer predictive analytics to forecast stock performance.•
4.4 Portfolio Management
Users must be able to create and manage their stock portfolios.•
The app must track portfolio performance and provide detailed reports.•
4.6 Notifications and Alerts
Users must receive notifications for significant market events, stock performance, and trading 
activities. (This should be shown on startup of the application)•
Users must be able to customize alert settings.•
6. Assumptions
Users have a basic understanding of stock trading and investment.•
Users have access to the internet and compatible devices in order to initiate trades•
8. Dependencies
Availability of real -time market data from third -party providers. •
AI Analysis should use following methods:
Investors may be best suited to use fundamental, technical, and quantitative analysis 
as one technique may not always be superior compared to other techniques. Based 
on the information available and objectives of the investors, it may be better to 
analyze the financial positioning, research the company's industry, or devise complex 
financial models.
Measures to include: 
the price -to-earnings (P/E), price -to-book (P/B), price -to-sales (P/S), price -to-cash 
flow (P/CF), and many others. Of these ratios, the P/E ratio BRD
Wednesday, February 26, 2025 4:07 PM
   AI stock APP Page 869    
AI Stock App: UI/UX Design Blueprint
I. Introduction: Setting the Vision for the AI Stock App
A. Value Proposition
The AI Stock App is envisioned as a sophisticated yet accessible tool designed to empower 
investors in navigating the complexities of the stock market. Its core value proposition lies in 
the seamless integration of advanced Artificial Intelligence (AI) capabilities —including machine 
learning, natural language processing (NLP), and predictive analytics —with an intuitive, user -
centric design [User Query]. Unlike many existing applications that may cater exclusively to 
beginners with overly simplified features 1or target seasoned experts with complex, potentially 
overwhelming interfaces 2, this app aims to bridge the gap. It seeks to provide both novice and 
intermediate investors with personalized, AI -driven insights, real -time market data, and 
portfolio management tools, fostering more informed and confident investment decisions.
A key differentiator is the commitment to a holistic analytical approach, leveraging AI to 
synthesize fundamental, technical, quantitative, and sentiment analysis [User Query]. This 
contrasts with platforms that might specialize in only one or two areas.3By offering a 
comprehensive analytical perspective powered by AI, the app intends to deliver deeper, more 
contextualized insights than readily available through basic screeners or news aggregators.6The 
manual portfolio entry, necessitated by limitations with direct broker APIs like Fidelity's [User 
Query], is acknowledged, positioning the app's value in the strength of its analytical tools and 
tracking capabilities once data is entered.
B. Core Design Philosophy
The design of the AI Stock App will be anchored in several fundamental principles crucial for 
success in the FinTech space:
Trust and Security: In finance, user trust is non -negotiable.7The design will actively cultivate 
trust through multiple avenues. Transparency will be key, particularly in how AI 
recommendations are generated and presented, avoiding a "black box" approach.10Clear 
communication regarding security measures, such as data encryption, secure authentication 
protocols (including multi -factor authentication -MFA), and optional biometric logins (Face ID, 
fingerprint), will be integrated into the user interface.7Furthermore, the reliability and accuracy 
of the presented data, especially real -time market information, are paramount for building and 
maintaining user confidence.12Trust badges or relevant regulatory compliance statements (e.g., 
alignment with SEC guidelines) can further reassure users.71.
Simplicity and Clarity: Financial data and analysis can be inherently complex. Therefore, the 
UI/UX must prioritize simplicity and clarity to prevent user confusion and cognitive overload.7
This involves implementing intuitive navigation patterns 7, using clear and consistent labeling 
for all elements 9, employing ample white space, and ensuring a clean, uncluttered aesthetic.9
Complex information, particularly financial data and AI analysis outputs, will be presented 
visually through well -designed charts and graphs wherever possible, making it more digestible 
and engaging than raw numbers or dense text.7The goal is an interface that feels effortless to 
use, even with sophisticated underlying functionality.82.
Personalization: Leveraging AI, the app experience will be tailored to the individual user.7This 
extends beyond basic watchlist customization to include personalized dashboard layouts 7, AI-3.Wednesday, April 23, 2025 2:10 PM
   AI stock APP Page 870    
extends beyond basic watchlist customization to include personalized dashboard layouts 7, AI-
driven insights relevant to the user's holdings and interests 10, and stock recommendations 
filtered and contextualized based on the user's defined investment goals and risk tolerance 
profile.8This personalization aims to make the user feel the app is specifically built for their 
needs, enhancing engagement and perceived value.7
Actionability: The app's design will focus not just on presenting data and analysis, but on 
empowering users to make informed decisions.11Insights derived from AI should be presented 
in a way that suggests potential actions or clarifies market conditions.12Data visualizations 
should guide users towards understanding trends and patterns, facilitating quicker and more 
confident decision -making.114.
A significant challenge in designing this app lies in reconciling the depth of its AI -driven 
analytical features with the imperative for simplicity and clarity.8Offering comprehensive 
analysis across fundamental, technical, quantitative, and sentiment dimensions inherently 
introduces complexity [User Query]. However, research consistently shows that overly complex 
interfaces deter users, particularly in the financial domain where trust and ease of use are 
paramount.7The solution lies in a design that embraces layered information and adaptability. 
The default user experience, especially on the main dashboard, must be clean and intuitive, 
prioritizing essential information. Deeper analytical tools and data points should be accessible 
through clear navigation paths and drill -downs, allowing users to explore complexity 
progressively as their needs and understanding grow. Customizable interfaces 8and potentially 
adaptive UI elements 11can further empower users to tailor the complexity to their preference, 
ensuring the app serves both the guided novice and the insight -seeking intermediate trader 
without overwhelming the former or frustrating the latter.
C. Target User Profile Refinement
The primary target audience for the AI Stock App includes individuals with a foundational 
understanding of stock trading and investment concepts [User Query: Assumption 8]. However, 
the design philosophy explicitly rejects a one -size-fits-all approach. It acknowledges the 
spectrum of users within this broad category, ranging from confident beginners who appreciate 
guidance and clear explanations 1to more experienced intermediate traders actively seeking 
sophisticated AI -powered analytical tools to gain an edge.
The UI/UX must therefore be flexible. It should provide scaffolding and educational cues 
(perhaps through tooltips, contextual help, or links to learning resources 7) for those less 
experienced, ensuring they are not intimidated by the available tools. Simultaneously, it must 
offer sufficient depth and control for intermediate users who want to dive deeper into the AI 
analysis, customize their views, and leverage the full analytical power of the platform. This 
differentiates the app from platforms strictly focused on absolute beginners 1or those built 
primarily for highly advanced, professional traders requiring institutional -level complexity.2An 
adaptive or layered approach to presenting information and features will be crucial.11
D. Report Structure Overview
This report details the proposed UI/UX design for the AI Stock App. Subsequent sections will 
cover the design specifics for each core functional area:
Section II: The Main Dashboard/Home Page design. •
Section III: The Real -Time Market Data section, including stock discovery and charting. •
Section IV: The AI -driven Analysis and Recommendations Hub. •
Section V: The Portfolio Management section, focusing on manual data entry and 
tracking.•
Section VI: The Notifications and Alerts system. •
   AI stock APP Page 871    
Section VI: The Notifications and Alerts system. •
Section VII: The User Profile and Settings area, including the risk tolerance assessment. •
Section VIII: The overall application Navigation Flow. •
Section IX: Concluding remarks on key principles and the iterative development process. •
II. The Command Center: Designing the Main Dashboard/Home Page
A. Purpose and Goals
The Main Dashboard, or Home Page, serves as the user's primary entry point and command 
center within the AI Stock App. Its fundamental purpose is to provide an immediate, 
personalized, and actionable overview of the user's relevant financial landscape upon opening 
the app.7It must deliver "immediate value" 7by consolidating critical information, reducing the 
need for users to navigate through multiple screens to grasp their current situation. Key goals 
include displaying a snapshot of market conditions, summarizing portfolio performance, 
highlighting urgent alerts or news, providing quick access to frequently used features like 
search and portfolio details, and potentially teasing personalized AI insights.12
B. Layout and Information Hierarchy
Achieving the dashboard's goals requires a meticulously planned layout prioritizing clarity and 
immediate comprehension. A strong visual hierarchy is essential to guide the user's eye to the 
most critical information first.14Techniques such as strategic use of size, color (e.g., green for 
gains, red for losses), typography, and placement will be employed to differentiate primary 
information (like portfolio value changes or critical alerts) from secondary data.14
The dashboard will be structured around several key components, likely arranged in a modular 
or card -based format 17for clarity and potential future customization:
Market Overview: A concise summary displaying the real -time performance (price change 
and percentage change) of major market indices relevant to the user (e.g., S&P 500, 
NASDAQ, Dow Jones).23This provides immediate context on the broader market 
environment.•
Portfolio Snapshot: This is arguably the most crucial element for many users. It will 
prominently display the total portfolio value, the day's gain or loss (both absolute value 
and percentage), and potentially the overall total gain/loss.12A small sparkline or mini -
chart illustrating the portfolio's recent performance trend could enhance visual 
understanding.7•
Key Alerts/Notifications: A dedicated and highly visible area for displaying critical, 
personalized, and unread alerts upon app startup, as per requirements [User Query: 4.6]. 
This could include significant price movements in portfolio holdings, user -defined price 
target hits, or important AI -driven notifications.7•
Watchlist Summary: A compact view showing the top performing and worst performing 
stocks from the user's primary watchlist, providing a quick glance at stocks they are 
actively monitoring.17•
AI-Driven Insights Snippet: A small, dynamic section designed to surface a single, 
compelling personalized insight or recommendation generated by the app's AI engine 
(e.g., "AI sentiment analysis for turned strongly positive today.").10This serves as a hook, 
encouraging users to explore the full AI Analysis section via a direct link.•
Quick Actions: Clearly identifiable buttons or icons for the most frequent user actions, 
such as initiating a stock search, navigating directly to the full portfolio view, or accessing 
the trade execution screen (even if execution itself is outside the app).7These should be 
easily accessible, potentially in a persistent header or near the bottom navigation.•
The layout should prioritize placing the Portfolio Snapshot and Key Alerts "above the fold" or in 
   AI stock APP Page 872    
The layout should prioritize placing the Portfolio Snapshot and Key Alerts "above the fold" or in 
the most prominent positions to ensure users see the most vital information immediately upon 
launching the app.
C. Customization and Personalization
To enhance user satisfaction and ensure relevance, the dashboard should offer personalization 
options.7Users should be able to tailor the dashboard to their priorities. This could involve:
Widget Rearrangement: Allowing users to drag and drop or reorder the different 
components (Market Overview, Portfolio Snapshot, Watchlist, etc.) based on what they 
want to see first.17•
Component Visibility: Enabling users to hide or show specific widgets if they find them 
irrelevant.17•
Metric Selection: Potentially allowing users to choose which specific metrics are displayed 
within certain widgets (e.g., showing total gain/loss vs. daily gain/loss in the portfolio 
snapshot).•
This customization empowers users, giving them a sense of control over their experience and 
ensuring the dashboard remains highly relevant to their individual needs and preferences.8
D. Data Presentation
Even in summary views, data must be presented clearly and effectively. This involves using:
Appropriate Visualizations: Employing mini -charts (sparklines), clear color -coding 
(green/red for positive/negative changes), and potentially progress bars or gauges where 
appropriate.7•
Concise Formatting: Displaying numbers clearly and consistently, using appropriate units 
and precision.•
Real -Time Perception: Ensuring data updates feel immediate and accurate, reinforcing 
the app's reliability.12•
The dashboard serves as the primary interface for the user's interaction with their financial 
information within the app. As such, its design is critical not only for usability but also for 
establishing and maintaining trust.7A cluttered, confusing, or difficult -to-navigate dashboard 
can quickly erode user confidence and lead to abandonment.7Conversely, a clean, well -
organized dashboard that presents the most important, personalized information (like portfolio 
status and critical alerts) immediately and clearly builds user confidence and provides instant 
value.7Offering customization options further strengthens this by giving users control and 
ensuring the information presented aligns directly with their individual priorities.8Furthermore, 
by providing clear links from dashboard elements (like AI insight snippets or alert summaries) to 
the corresponding detailed sections, the design fosters transparency and allows users to easily 
explore information further.15Therefore, the dashboard design must be executed with 
meticulous attention to detail, focusing on clarity, prioritization of user needs, and intuitive 
customization capabilities, establishing it as the trustworthy anchor of the user experience.
III. Real -Time Market Pulse: Designing the Market Data Section
A. Stock Discovery and Search
Providing users with efficient ways to find and research stocks is a core function. This section 
must facilitate easy discovery and access to detailed information for securities listed on 
supported exchanges like NYSE and NASDAQ [User Query: 4.2].
Search Functionality: A prominent search bar, readily accessible from the main navigation 
or dashboard, is essential.7This search should support queries by both ticker symbol and •
   AI stock APP Page 873    
or dashboard, is essential.7This search should support queries by both ticker symbol and 
company name. Implementing intelligent features like auto -completion and suggestion 
lists as the user types can significantly speed up the process and improve usability. Search 
results should clearly display the company name, ticker symbol, and the exchange it 
trades on.
Data Source Integration: The app relies on third -party providers for real -time market data 
[User Query: 8]. Potential sources include Alpha Vantage 28, IEX Cloud 29, dedicated 
exchange feeds like Nasdaq TotalView or Nasdaq Basic 30, or comprehensive providers like 
Polygon.io.32The choice of API provider will impact data granularity, latency, and cost, 
and is a critical dependency. The UI should ideally mask the underlying source complexity 
from the end -user, presenting data seamlessly.•
Browsing and Filtering: Beyond direct search, the app should offer ways to browse the 
market. This could include predefined lists such as: 
Market Movers: Sections showcasing top daily gainers and losers across supported 
exchanges.•
Sector/Industry Views: Allowing users to explore stocks grouped by industry or 
sector 23, potentially visualizing sector performance.•
Curated Lists: Potentially featuring lists based on themes, analyst ratings (if 
available), or trending stocks discussed in news or social media.••
B. Stock Detail Page
Once a user selects a stock, the Stock Detail Page provides an in -depth view. This page must be 
information -rich yet remain clear and easy to parse.
Header: The top of the page should clearly display the company's full name, ticker symbol, 
and the primary exchange. Crucially, it must show the current stock price, the day's price 
change (both absolute value and percentage, clearly color -coded), and potentially the last 
trade time or indication of real -time status. Buttons for core actions like "Add to 
Watchlist" and "Trade" (linking to the execution workflow, even if external) should be 
prominent. Information on after -hours or pre -market trading, if available from the data 
source, should also be presented here.•
Charting: The centerpiece of the Stock Detail Page is the interactive stock chart. 
Primary Chart Type: The default view should be a candlestick chart, as this is the 
standard and most information -rich format for traders.27However, users should 
have the option to switch to simpler visualizations like line charts (plotting closing 
prices) or area charts.33•
Timeframes: Easy -to-tap controls for selecting various chart timeframes are 
essential (e.g., 1 Day (Intraday), 5 Day, 1 Month, 3 Month, 6 Month, Year -to-Date 
(YTD), 1 Year, 5 Year, Max).17The selected timeframe should be clearly indicated.•
Technical Indicators: While the default chart should be clean to avoid overwhelming 
users 37, the ability to overlay common technical indicators is a requirement [User 
Query: 3]. Users should be able to select and configure indicators such as Moving 
Averages (SMA, EMA), Relative Strength Index (RSI), Moving Average Convergence 
Divergence (MACD), and Bollinger Bands.17A manageable list of the most popular 
indicators should be offered, with potentially an option to customize parameters.•
Volume Display: A bar chart representing trading volume corresponding to the main 
chart's timeframe should be displayed directly below the price chart.33Volume 
provides crucial context for price movements.•
Interactivity: The chart must be interactive, allowing users to pan across time and 
zoom in/out on price levels smoothly.39Hovering or tapping on the chart should 
display a crosshair showing the specific date/time, OHLC prices, and volume for that ••
   AI stock APP Page 874    
display a crosshair showing the specific date/time, OHLC prices, and volume for that 
data point.40
Visualization Best Practices: Adherence to data visualization best practices is critical 
for chart clarity and usability. This includes using clear axis labels, ensuring 
appropriate scaling (price axis should adapt to data; volume axis should ideally start 
at zero 37), avoiding visual clutter like excessive gridlines 37, using standard color 
conventions (e.g., green/red or blue/red for up/down candles 33), ensuring text is 
legible, and guaranteeing the chart is responsive and performs well on various 
screen sizes.15•
Charting Library Recommendation: Selecting the right charting library is a pivotal 
decision impacting development effort, performance, and user experience. Based on 
its widespread use in financial applications 3, open -source nature, focus on 
performance with large datasets and real -time updates, mobile -friendliness, and 
comprehensive feature set specifically for financial charting, TradingView 
Lightweight Charts is strongly recommended.34Its adoption provides a degree of 
industry standard familiarity. Development teams should be aware of specific 
integration patterns for React, including options for simple embedding or more 
complex component structures 42, potential complexities with React Native 
integration (often requiring WebViews) 43, and mobile -specific rendering 
behaviors.46While alternatives like Recharts 47, Nivo 47, Chart.js 51, or commercial 
options 51exist, TradingView's specialization offers significant advantages for this 
specific application type. The implications of this choice are substantial; it dictates 
the visual possibilities, the interactive feel, the rendering performance, and the 
development path for one of the app's most critical user interface elements.•
Key Statistics: Below or alongside the chart, a clearly organized section should display key 
statistical data points for the stock. This typically includes: Today's Open, High, Low, 
Previous Close (OHLC data), Trading Volume, Market Capitalization, 52 -Week High and 
Low prices, and potentially Average Daily Volume.21Providing context, like comparing 
current volume to average volume, can add value.•
Link to AI Analysis: A clear and prominent button, tab, or link should allow the user to 
seamlessly navigate from the market data view to the dedicated AI Analysis Hub for the 
currently viewed stock.•
Company Information: A brief section providing context about the company, including a 
short business description, its sector, and industry classification.•
C. News Integration
Contextual news is vital for understanding stock movements. This section should feature a feed 
of recent news articles relevant to the specific stock being viewed.3
Content: Display headlines, source (e.g., Reuters, Bloomberg, Yahoo Finance), and 
publication timestamp. Tapping a headline should ideally open the article in an in -app 
browser or link out.•
Relevance: Ensure news is timely and directly related to the company or factors 
significantly impacting its industry.•
Sentiment Indication: If the AI engine performs sentiment analysis on news articles 55, 
consider displaying a sentiment indicator (e.g., positive/negative/neutral icon) next to 
each headline for a quick assessment of news tone.•
IV. AI -Powered Insights Engine: Designing the Analysis & Recommendations 
Hub
A. Overall Structure and Navigation
   AI stock APP Page 875    
A. Overall Structure and Navigation
This hub is the core of the app's AI capabilities, providing users with deeper analytical insights 
beyond raw market data. To manage the potentially large amount of information generated by 
different AI models, a clear structure is essential.
Dedicated Section: The AI Analysis Hub should be a distinct, top -level section accessible 
from the main navigation (e.g., bottom tab bar).7It should also be contextually accessible 
from individual stock detail pages, automatically loading the analysis for that specific 
stock.•
Information Architecture: Within the hub for a selected stock, use tabs, accordions, or 
distinct sub -sections to organize the analysis by type: 
Fundamental Analysis: Ratios, financial health, NLP summaries. •
Technical Analysis: Patterns, forecasts. •
Quantitative Analysis: Model outputs (if applicable). •
Sentiment Analysis: Scores, trends, source breakdown. •
AI Recommendation / Summary: Consolidated view and actionable signals. This 
segmented approach prevents overwhelming the user and allows them to focus on 
the type of analysis most relevant to them.14••
Consistency: Maintain a consistent layout and presentation style for the AI analysis across 
different stocks, enabling users to easily compare insights between potential investments.•
B. Visualizing Fundamental Analysis
AI can significantly enhance traditional fundamental analysis by processing vast amounts of 
data and text.
Key Ratios Display: Present the core fundamental ratios specified: Price -to-Earnings (P/E), 
Price -to-Book (P/B), Price -to-Sales (P/S), Price -to-Cash Flow (P/CF), Debt -to-Equity, Return 
on Equity (ROE), and various Profit Margins (Gross, Operating, Net).28Sourcing this data 
requires reliable APIs like Alpha Vantage.28Crucially, don't just display the raw numbers. 
Provide context by: 
Visualizing ratios using gauges or bar charts comparing the stock's current ratio to its 
historical range or industry benchmarks.7•
Clearly indicating whether a ratio is considered favorable or unfavorable based on 
common financial principles or AI assessment.••
NLP-Powered Summaries: Leverage NLP models (like GPT or BERT mentioned in the User 
Query) to process and summarize lengthy financial documents [User Query: 2]. Display 
concise, AI -generated summaries of: 
SEC Filings (e.g., 10 -K, 10 -Q key takeaways). •
Earnings Call Transcripts (highlighting key management commentary).•
Financial News Reports (extracting core information). Present these summaries in 
easily digestible formats like bullet points or short paragraphs.57Always attribute the 
summary to the source document and include the date. Explicitly highlight any 
bullish or bearish signals detected by the NLP model during analysis [User Query: 2].••
Financial Health Score: Consider developing an AI -driven composite score (e.g., on a 1 -5 
or 0-100 scale) that summarizes the overall fundamental health of the company.10This 
score should be accompanied by a brief explanation highlighting the key factors (e.g., 
strong revenue growth, high debt levels) that contributed to the score, enhancing 
transparency.•
C. Presenting Technical Analysis
AI excels at identifying complex patterns and forecasting trends in price and volume data.
   AI stock APP Page 876    
Pattern Recognition: When the AI detects significant technical patterns (e.g., Head and 
Shoulders, Triangles, Flags, Moving Average Crossovers) [User Query: 3], visually overlay 
or highlight these patterns directly on a simplified stock chart within this section.3
Accompany the visual with a brief text explanation of the pattern and its typical 
implication (e.g., "Bullish Pennant detected, often precedes upward breakout").•
Time -Series Forecasts: Display AI -generated price forecasts (e.g., using LSTM or ARIMA 
models [User Query: 3]) visually.18This should typically be shown as an extension of the 
historical price chart into the future. It is critical to represent the inherent uncertainty in 
any forecast. Display confidence intervals, probability bands, or multiple potential 
forecast paths rather than a single deterministic line. Clearly label the forecast period 
(e.g., "Next 30 days forecast"). Avoid presenting forecasts as guarantees.•
Reinforcement Learning Strategy Insights: If Reinforcement Learning (RL) is employed to 
optimize trading strategies [User Query: 3], this section could visualize the backtested 
performance of AI -suggested strategies for the specific stock (e.g., simulated equity curve, 
key performance metrics like Sharpe ratio or max drawdown).•
D. Integrating Quantitative Models & Sentiment Analysis
This section houses insights from statistical models and the analysis of subjective opinions.
Quantitative Analysis: If the app incorporates quantitative models beyond standard 
technical indicators (e.g., factor models, statistical arbitrage models), their outputs should 
be presented here. The visualization will depend heavily on the model type. Examples 
include displaying factor exposures (bar chart), risk predictions (numerical score or 
gauge), or probability scores for certain market events. Simplicity is key unless the app 
specifically targets quantitative analysts.•
Sentiment Analysis Dashboard: This provides a powerful lens into market mood regarding 
a specific stock, aggregating opinions from various sources [User Query: 4]. 
Overall Sentiment Score: Display a clear gauge, numerical score (e.g., -1 to +1 for 
polarity, or 0 -100 for positivity), or simple label (Positive, Negative, Neutral, Mixed) 
summarizing the current aggregated sentiment.56Tools like NLTK's VADER 60, 
financial -specific models like FinBERT 56, or cloud services like Azure AI Language 61
can power this.•
Sentiment Trend Over Time: Use a line chart to illustrate how the aggregated 
sentiment score has evolved (e.g., daily or weekly over the past month or quarter).55
This helps identify shifts in market perception.•
Sentiment by Source: A pie chart or stacked bar chart can show the breakdown of 
sentiment across different sources analyzed (e.g., Financial News, Twitter, Reddit 
forums like r/WallStreetBets).61This reveals if sentiment differs significantly across 
platforms.•
Key Topics and Keywords: Utilize NLP techniques like topic modeling or keyword 
extraction to identify the main themes driving positive or negative sentiment. 
Display these using word clouds (where word size indicates frequency) or ranked 
lists of keywords/phrases.58•
Example Sentiment Snippets: Potentially show a few anonymized, representative 
examples of recent positive and negative comments or news headlines that 
contributed to the score, providing qualitative context.••
E. Delivering Personalized Recommendations
This is where the various AI analyses converge into actionable guidance tailored to the user.
Clear Buy/Sell/Hold Signals: Present the AI's final recommendation using unambiguous 
visual cues (e.g., distinct icons, clear color -coding) and explicit labels (Buy, Strong Buy, •
   AI stock APP Page 877    
visual cues (e.g., distinct icons, clear color -coding) and explicit labels (Buy, Strong Buy, 
Hold, Sell, Strong Sell).3
Explanation ("The Why"): This is arguably the most critical element for building trust and 
utility. Each recommendation must be accompanied by a concise, human -readable 
explanation detailing the primary reasons behind it.10This explanation should explicitly 
reference the key findings from the different analysis types (e.g., "Recommendation: Buy. 
Justification: Strong positive sentiment trend observed across news and social media 
[link], coupled with improving P/E ratio below industry average [link] and recent bullish 
Moving Average crossover pattern [link]."). This transparency allows users to understand 
the basis of the recommendation and builds confidence in the AI.7AI itself (LLMs) might 
be used to help generate these summary justifications.10•
Confidence Level: Associate a confidence score or qualitative level (e.g., High, Medium, 
Low Confidence) with each recommendation, acknowledging that AI predictions are 
probabilistic.•
Risk Profile Alignment: Explicitly connect the recommendation to the user's defined risk 
tolerance profile.8For instance, add a note like: "This 'Aggressive Growth' stock aligns 
with your stated risk tolerance profile." or "Caution: This 'Speculative Buy' 
recommendation carries high risk, which may exceed your 'Moderate' risk tolerance 
profile." This personalization makes the recommendation far more relevant and 
responsible.•
AI Stock Screener Integration: If the app features an AI -powered stock screener [User 
Query: 7], the results should be presented in a clear list format within this section or a 
dedicated screener page. The list should show key AI -derived metrics or scores used for 
screening, allow sorting and filtering, and provide direct links from each listed stock to its 
detailed AI Analysis Hub page.•
The successful adoption of AI in financial applications hinges significantly on user trust and 
understanding. Users are often skeptical of opaque algorithms making financial suggestions.7
Simply presenting a final output like a "Buy" signal or a numerical score without justification can 
be perceived as arbitrary and untrustworthy.10The power of this app lies in its ability to analyze 
diverse data streams –fundamentals 28, technicals [User Query: 3], sentiment from text 58, and 
quantitative factors. The UI design must leverage this by making the evidence behind AI 
conclusions visible. Displaying the specific ratios, patterns, sentiment trends, or NLP summaries 
that led to a particular recommendation transforms the AI from an inscrutable oracle into a 
transparent analytical tool. Utilizing AI itself, particularly Large Language Models mentioned in 
the initial requirements [User Query: 2], to generate natural language summaries of the 
reasoning process 10can further enhance this explainability. Therefore, the design of the AI 
Analysis Hub, and especially the Recommendations section, must be architected around the 
principle of "show, don't just tell," making the reasoning transparent and fostering user 
confidence.
Table 1: AI Analysis Summary Table (Example for a Specific Stock)
Location: AI Analysis Hub -Summary/Recommendation Tab
Analysis Area Current Status / Score Key Drivers Link to 
Details
Fundamental 
HealthImproving (Score: 75/100) Strong YoY Revenue Growth, Moderate 
P/E Ratio[View 
Details]
Technical Bullish Golden Cross (50 -day MA > 200 -day [View 
   AI stock APP Page 878    
Technical 
OutlookBullish Golden Cross (50 -day MA > 200 -day 
MA), Breakout[View 
Details]
Sentiment Trend Strongly Positive High positive news volume, Rising social 
buzz[View 
Details]
Quantitative 
SignalNeutral Factor exposures within expected range [View 
Details]
Overall AI Rating Strong Buy Confidence: High
Risk Profile Fit Aligns with 'Aggressive Growth' 
profile[View 
Profile]
Value Rationale: This table provides a crucial synthesis of the complex, multi -faceted AI 
analysis. It allows users to quickly grasp the overall picture 14by summarizing outputs from 
different analytical dimensions (fundamental, technical, sentiment, quantitative).11Highlighting 
the key drivers for each assessment offers immediate context and supports the explainability 
goal.10Direct links facilitate easy drill -down into the detailed analysis sections for users seeking 
more depth.14Presenting the final recommendation alongside a confidence level and explicit 
risk profile alignment makes the output highly actionable and personalized, reinforcing the 
app's value proposition and building user trust.
V. User Portfolio Hub: Designing the Portfolio Management Section
A. Manual Data Entry
A core constraint specified is the inability to directly connect to certain brokerage accounts (like 
Fidelity) via API for automated portfolio tracking. Consequently, the app must rely on manual 
user input for portfolio holdings. This necessitates a design that minimizes friction and 
maximizes ease of use for this potentially tedious task.
Input Interface: The UI for adding a new holding must be streamlined and intuitive. It 
should consist of a simple form requiring: 
Stock Symbol/Name: An input field with robust search and autocomplete 
functionality, pulling from the same stock database used in the Market Data section, 
to quickly find and select the correct security.•
Quantity: A numerical input for the number of shares purchased. •
Purchase Price: A numerical input for the price paid per share. •
Purchase Date: A date picker for the transaction date. ••
Editing and Deleting: Clear options must be available within the portfolio view to edit 
existing entries (e.g., correct errors) or delete holdings that have been sold.•
Minimizing Friction: The process should require the fewest possible taps or clicks. 
Consider features like remembering frequently entered symbols or allowing batch 
additions if feasible, although simplicity should be the priority.7•
B. Portfolio Overview Dashboard
Once users have entered their holdings, the Portfolio section must provide a clear, 
comprehensive, and visually engaging overview of their investments.
Key Performance Metrics: The top of the overview should prominently display essential 
summary figures: 
Total Portfolio Value: The current market value of all holdings. •
Total Gain/Loss: The overall profit or loss across the entire portfolio, shown in both 
absolute currency value and percentage terms.•
Day's Gain/Loss: The change in portfolio value during the current trading day, also •
   AI stock APP Page 879    
Day's Gain/Loss: The change in portfolio value during the current trading day, also 
shown in absolute value and percentage.•
Cash Balance (Optional): If the app allows users to track cash, this should be 
displayed here.•
Visualizations: Effective data visualization is key to making portfolio performance easy to 
understand.7 
Performance Chart: A line or area chart showing the portfolio's total value over 
user -selectable time periods (e.g., 1 Day, 1 Week, 1 Month, YTD, 1 Year, All Time). 
This provides an immediate visual representation of growth or decline. Optionally, 
allow comparison against a relevant benchmark index (like the S&P 500) to provide 
performance context.•
Allocation Breakdown: Visualize how the portfolio is allocated. A donut chart or 
treemap can effectively display the proportion of the portfolio invested in each 
individual stock.37Alternatively, allocation could be shown by sector or industry if 
this data is associated with the entered stocks. Ensure adherence to best practices 
for these chart types (e.g., limit segments in donut charts, use clear labeling 37).••
Holdings Summary Table: A detailed list of all current holdings, presented in a sortable 
table format.21Essential columns include: 
Stock Symbol/Company Name•
Quantity Held•
Current Market Price (real -time) •
Day's Change (absolute and percentage)•
Total Current Market Value of the holding•
Total Gain/Loss for the holding (absolute and percentage) Allowing users to sort this 
table by different columns (e.g., by value, by gain/loss) provides flexibility in 
analyzing their positions.••
C. Individual Holding Detail View
Tapping on a specific stock within the summary table should navigate the user to a detailed 
view for that particular holding. This view provides more granular information:
Purchase Details: Display the original purchase information (quantity, price, date). If the 
user has made multiple purchases (lots) of the same stock, the app should ideally track 
these separately to allow for accurate cost basis calculation (though this adds complexity 
to the manual entry).•
Performance Metrics: Show the current market value of this specific holding, the total 
gain or loss (absolute and percentage) since purchase, and potentially the annualized 
return.•
Cost Basis: Clearly display the calculated cost basis for the holding. •
Mini -Chart: Include a small chart showing the price performance of just this stock since 
the user's purchase date(s).•
Contextual Links: Provide prominent buttons or links to navigate directly to the full 
Market Data page and the AI Analysis Hub for this specific stock, facilitating deeper 
research.•
D. Reporting Features
While limited by manual data entry, some basic reporting can add value.
Potential Reports: Consider offering simple, viewable (or potentially downloadable CSV) 
reports such as: 
Performance Summary: A snapshot of current values, gains/losses across all 
holdings.••
   AI stock APP Page 880    
holdings.
Realized Gains/Losses: If the app includes functionality for users to mark holdings as 
sold (requiring input of sale price and date), a report summarizing realized 
gains/losses for tax purposes could be generated.•
Dividend Tracking: If users can manually input received dividends, a report 
summarizing dividend income could be offered.•
Simplicity: Given the manual nature of the data, reporting features should be kept 
relatively simple initially to manage development complexity and user expectations.•
The requirement for manual portfolio entry presents a significant usability challenge compared 
to platforms offering automated brokerage integration.7Users are generally averse to manual 
data input, especially for potentially large portfolios. Therefore, the design must prioritize 
making the input process as quick, simple, and error -free as possible.7The core value 
proposition for this section shifts: the app provides powerful tracking, visualization, and analysis 
after the user invests the effort to input their data. To justify this effort and retain users, the 
output –the portfolio overview, performance charts, allocation breakdowns, and seamless 
integration with the AI analysis features –must be exceptionally clear, visually appealing, and 
provide insights that are not easily obtainable otherwise.7The focus must be on delivering 
tangible value from the manually entered data.
VI. Staying Informed: Designing Notifications and Alerts
A. Alert Presentation
Timely information is crucial in volatile stock markets. The notification system must deliver 
relevant alerts effectively without becoming intrusive.
Startup Display: As explicitly required [User Query: 4.6], critical, unacknowledged alerts 
must be presented prominently when the user launches the app. This could take the form 
of: 
A modal dialog box that appears on startup, summarizing key alerts and requiring 
dismissal.•
A dedicated, highlighted section at the top of the main dashboard.7•
A persistent notification badge on the navigation bar, leading to an alert center. The 
goal is to ensure the user cannot miss potentially important updates related to their 
portfolio or monitored stocks immediately upon opening the app.••
Push Notifications: For time -sensitive information when the app is closed, standard 
mobile push notifications should be utilized.12These should be concise and clearly state 
the reason for the alert.•
In-App Notification Center: A dedicated section within the app should serve as a historical 
log of all received notifications and alerts. This allows users to review past alerts they may 
have missed or dismissed.•
B. Types of Alerts
The system should support a range of alert types, balancing market -wide information with 
personalized updates:
Market -Based Alerts: 
Notifications for significant movements (e.g., > +/ -2%) in major indices (S&P 500, 
NASDAQ).•
Warnings about periods of high market volatility.••
Stock -Specific Alerts (for Portfolio & Watchlist items): 
User -Defined Price Targets: Alerts triggered when a stock reaches a specific price 
level set by the user.17••
   AI stock APP Page 881    
level set by the user.17
Significant Price Change: Alerts for large daily percentage changes (e.g., 
configurable threshold like +/ -5% or +/ -10%).•
Unusual Volume: Notifications when trading volume significantly exceeds the 
average, potentially indicating heightened interest or institutional activity.17•
Corporate Actions/Events: Alerts for upcoming earnings announcement dates, 
dividend dates, or stock splits for relevant companies.•
Analyst Rating Changes: If the app integrates analyst rating data, alerts for 
significant upgrades or downgrades.•
AI-Driven Alerts: Leveraging the app's unique capabilities: 
New Recommendations: Notifications when the AI generates a new Buy/Sell/Hold 
recommendation for a stock in the user's portfolio or watchlist.•
Sentiment Shifts: Alerts triggered by a significant change in the AI -detected 
sentiment score (e.g., moving from Neutral to Strongly Positive) for a relevant 
stock.55•
Technical Pattern Detection: Notifications when the AI identifies a potentially 
significant technical chart pattern (e.g., breakout confirmation).••
Portfolio -Related Alerts: 
Notifications when the overall portfolio value crosses a certain threshold or 
experiences a large single -day gain/loss.•
Alerts when an individual holding reaches a significant gain or loss milestone (e.g., +
50% gain, -20% loss).••
C. Customization
To prevent alert fatigue and ensure relevance, granular user control over notifications is 
essential.7
Category Control: Users must be able to easily enable or disable broad categories of alerts 
(e.g., turn off all Market -Based alerts, enable only AI -Driven alerts for portfolio stocks).8•
Stock -Level Control: Allow users to set specific price target alerts for individual stocks in 
their portfolio or watchlist.•
Threshold Adjustment: For alerts based on percentage change or volume, allow users to 
adjust the sensitivity thresholds.•
Delivery Method: Provide options to control whether alerts are delivered via push 
notification, shown in -app only, or both.•
Meaningful Content: Ensure alert messages are clear, concise, and provide enough 
context for the user to understand the significance without necessarily opening the app 
immediately. Avoid generic or overly frequent notifications that add noise rather than 
signal.7•
Notifications serve as a powerful mechanism for engagement and timely information delivery in 
financial apps.7However, their effectiveness is easily undermined if they become excessive or 
irrelevant, leading to user annoyance and eventual disabling of the feature.7The key is to 
ensure alerts provide high -signal information tailored to the user's specific context –their 
portfolio, their watchlist, and their stated interests. AI -driven alerts, such as new 
recommendations or significant sentiment shifts, offer a unique value proposition but must be 
carefully curated for quality and relevance. Providing users with comprehensive and easy -to-
use customization options 8is crucial for managing alert frequency and ensuring that the 
system delivers valuable signals rather than distracting noise. The requirement to show critical 
alerts on startup [User Query: 4.6] should be implemented thoughtfully, prioritizing only the 
most urgent and unacknowledged information to avoid disrupting the user's initial interaction 
with the app.
   AI stock APP Page 882    
with the app.
VII. Personalization Core: Designing User Profile and Settings
A. Account Management
This section handles fundamental user account operations and security configurations.
Onboarding: The initial signup and login process should be streamlined and efficient, 
potentially using progressive onboarding techniques to introduce features gradually 
rather than overwhelming users upfront.7•
Security Settings: Given the sensitive nature of financial data, robust and accessible 
security settings are paramount. Users must be able to: 
Change their password securely.•
Enable, disable, and manage Multi -Factor Authentication (MFA) methods (e.g., SMS, 
authenticator app).•
Configure biometric login options (Face ID, Fingerprint) for convenient yet secure 
access.7The app should clearly communicate the security measures in place (e.g., 
encryption standards) to build user confidence.7••
Basic Information: Allow users to view and potentially edit basic profile details like their 
name and email address.•
B. Investment Preferences and Goals
Capturing user preferences allows for deeper personalization of insights and recommendations.
Investment Goals: Provide an optional section where users can define their primary 
investment objectives (e.g., Long -Term Growth, Retirement Savings, Income Generation, 
Short -Term Speculation, Buying a Home).63•
Time Horizon: Allow users to specify their general investment time horizon (e.g., Short -
term < 3 years, Medium -term 3 -10 years, Long -term > 10 years).63•
Interests (Optional): Consider allowing users to indicate interest in specific market sectors 
(e.g., Technology, Healthcare, Energy) or investment styles (e.g., Value Investing, Growth 
Investing, ESG -Environmental, Social, Governance). This information can be used by the 
AI engine to filter recommendations, tailor news feeds, and provide more relevant 
analytical insights.•
C. Risk Tolerance Assessment
Understanding a user's willingness and capacity to take investment risk is fundamental to 
providing personalized and suitable recommendations.8
Questionnaire Implementation: A dedicated risk tolerance questionnaire should be 
implemented, ideally presented during onboarding but also accessible later via Settings.63 
Content Strategy: The questionnaire should consist of a series of well -crafted, 
multiple -choice questions designed to assess various facets of risk tolerance.63
Drawing from established financial planning questionnaires 63, questions should 
cover: 
Time Horizon & Life Cycle: How long until the funds are needed? 63•
Investment Knowledge & Experience: User's self -assessed understanding of 
investments.63•
Emotional Response to Volatility: How would the user react to significant 
portfolio drops? 63•
Loss Aversion: Preference between avoiding loss vs. seeking higher gains.63•
Risk/Reward Trade -off:Choice between different hypothetical investment 
scenarios with varying potential gains and losses.63•
Investment Goals: Primary objective for investing (capital preservation, ••
   AI stock APP Page 883    
Investment Goals: Primary objective for investing (capital preservation, 
income, growth).63•
Financial Capacity: User's ability to withstand potential losses without 
jeopardizing financial stability (though harder to assess accurately via 
questionnaire alone).65•
Format and Length: Aim for approximately 7 -13 concise questions to gather 
sufficient information without causing fatigue.63The language should be clear and 
avoid jargon. Consider using interactive elements, progress indicators, or simple 
graphics to make the questionnaire more engaging than a static form.63•
Scoring Mechanism: Implement a scoring system where each answer choice contributes 
points towards an overall risk tolerance score.69•
Profile Presentation: Based on the calculated score, assign the user to a clear risk profile 
category (e.g., Conservative, Moderately Conservative, Moderate, Moderately Aggressive, 
Aggressive).63A numerical score (e.g., 0 -100) could also be displayed.70The user's profile 
should be clearly presented in their Settings, accompanied by a brief, easy -to-understand 
explanation of what that profile implies for investment strategy.•
Reassessment: Risk tolerance is not static; it can change due to age, experience, financial 
situation, or market events.68The app should include functionality to retake the 
questionnaire and prompt users to do so periodically (e.g., annually) or suggest it after 
major life events are potentially indicated (though this is harder to track automatically).68•
Risk tolerance assessment is more than just an onboarding checkbox; it's a dynamic input 
crucial for delivering on the promise of personalized AI recommendations [User Query: 4.3]. A 
well-constructed questionnaire, grounded in established financial advisory practices 63, is 
necessary to gauge the user's comfort with and capacity for risk. It's important to recognize the 
distinction between risk tolerance (emotional comfort) and risk capacity (financial ability) 65, 
although questionnaires primarily gauge tolerance. Because this tolerance can evolve 68, the 
design must incorporate mechanisms for reassessment, ensuring the personalization remains 
relevant over time. The AI recommendation engine must then explicitly reference this user -
defined profile when generating and presenting suggestions, adding a layer of suitability and 
responsibility to its outputs.
Table 2: Risk Tolerance Questionnaire Outline (Illustrative)
Location: Section VII.C Design Details
| # | Question Summary | Response Options (Example Scoring) | Dimension Assessed |
| :-: | :-----------------------------------------------------
| :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :----------------------------- |
| 1 | Investment Time Horizon / Years until withdrawal | < 2 years (1), 2 -5 years (2), 6 -10 years (3), > 10 
years (4) | Time Horizon 63 |
| 2 | Investment Knowledge Level | None (1), Low (2), Medium (3), High (4) | Knowledge/Experience 63 
|
| 3 | Reaction to a 20% portfolio drop | Sell all (1), Sell some (2), Hold (3), Buy more (4) | Volatility 
Comfort 63 |
| 4 | Preferred Risk/Return Scenario (5 -yr horizon) | Low Gain/Low Loss (1), Mod Gain/Mod Loss (2), 
High Gain/High Loss (3) | Risk/Reward Trade -off 63 |
| 5 | Primary Investment Goal | Preserve Capital (1), Generate Income (2), Balanced Growth (3), 
Maximize Growth (4) | Goal Focus 63 |
   AI stock APP Page 884    
Maximize Growth (4) | Goal Focus 63 |
| 6 | Comfort level statement | Comfortable with low risk/low return (1)... Comfortable with high 
risk/high return (4) | Risk Attitude 63 |
| 7 | Importance of avoiding loss vs. achieving high returns | Avoiding loss most important (1)... High 
returns most important (4) | Loss Aversion 63 |
| 8 | Preferred Investment Mix (Low/Med/High Risk) | Mostly Low Risk (1), Balanced (2), Mostly High 
Risk (3) | Asset Allocation Pref. 69 |
| 9 | Hypothetical Gamble Choice ($1000 cash vs. % chance) | Sure $1000 (1)... 5% chance at $100k (4) | 
Risk Seeking Behavior 69 |
| 10| Feeling about potential investment loss | Very uncomfortable losing any principal (1)... 
Comfortable with significant fluctuations (4) | Emotional Tolerance 68 |
| * | (Scoring: Sum points; Map total score to profile: e.g., 10 -15=Conservative, 16 -22=Moderate, 23 -30
=Aggressive) | (Example ranges) | (Overall Profile) |
Value Rationale: This table provides a concrete structure for the risk tolerance questionnaire, 
translating research findings 63into actionable design specifications. It outlines representative 
questions, scoring logic 69, and the specific risk dimensions being assessed.65This serves as a 
clear blueprint for development, ensuring the assessment is comprehensive and grounded in 
best practices, ultimately enabling meaningful personalization of AI recommendations.
D. App Settings
This section houses standard application -level configurations and resources.
Appearance: Theme selection (Light mode / Dark mode option).11•
Notifications: A link to the dedicated Notification and Alert customization screen (detailed 
in Section VI).•
Data & Disclaimers: Information about data sources, data refresh frequency, and 
standard financial disclaimers regarding investment risk and the nature of AI 
recommendations (not financial advice).•
Support & Feedback: Links to a Help Center, Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs), contact 
information for support, and potentially a mechanism for users to submit feedback.7•
About: App version information, links to Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. •
Logout: Securely log the user out of the application. •
VIII. Seamless Journeys: Defining the App Navigation Flow
A. Primary Navigation
An intuitive and consistent navigation structure is paramount for usability.7For a mobile 
application with distinct functional areas like this one, a standard bottom tab bar is the 
recommended primary navigation pattern.7
Core Tabs: The bottom tab bar should provide direct access to the main sections of the 
app. Suggested tabs include: 
Dashboard: The user's personalized home screen. •
Markets: For stock discovery, charting, and news. •
AI Analysis: The hub for AI -driven insights and recommendations. •
Portfolio: To view and manage user holdings. •
Settings/More: Access to profile, risk assessment, app settings, and support. ••
Clarity and Consistency: Icons used in the tab bar must be universally understood or 
clearly labeled. The visual style and terminology should remain consistent across the •
   AI stock APP Page 885    
clearly labeled. The visual style and terminology should remain consistent across the 
entire application.7
B. Key User Flows
Mapping out common user journeys helps ensure transitions between sections are logical and 
efficient, minimizing required taps or clicks.7
Flow 1: Researching a Stock with AI: 
User taps 'Search' icon (on Dashboard or Markets tab).1.
Enters stock symbol/name.2.
Selects stock from results, navigating to Market Data Page.3.
Reviews chart, key stats, and news.4.
Taps 'View AI Analysis' button/link.5.
Navigates to AI Analysis Hub for that stock.6.
Explores Fundamental, Technical, Sentiment tabs and AI Recommendation.7.•
Flow 2: Adding a Portfolio Holding: 
User taps 'Portfolio' tab in bottom navigation.1.
Taps 'Add Holding' or '+' button on the Portfolio Overview screen.2.
Enters Symbol, Quantity, Purchase Price, Purchase Date in the form.3.
Taps 'Save' or 'Add'.4.
Returns to the Portfolio Overview screen, which now reflects the added holding.5.•
Flow 3: Responding to a Critical Alert: 
User receives a push notification (e.g., "AAPL price dropped below your $170 alert").1.
User taps the notification.2.
App opens, potentially navigating directly to the AAPL Market Data page or the AI 
Analysis Hub for AAPL. (Alternative: App opens to Dashboard where the alert is 
prominently displayed).3.
User reviews the relevant information (price chart, AI analysis, news).4.
User decides on next action (e.g., monitor, view portfolio, initiate trade -link out). 5.•
Flow 4: Assessing/Updating Risk Tolerance: 
User taps 'Settings' or 'More' tab in bottom navigation.1.
Selects 'Profile' or 'Risk Tolerance Assessment'.2.
Completes (or re -takes) the questionnaire. 3.
Views the calculated Risk Profile result and explanation.4.
Navigates back to Settings or other sections.5.•
These flows should be designed to feel natural and require minimal cognitive effort from the 
user.
C. Consistency and Intuitiveness
Maintaining consistency throughout the app is crucial for learnability and ease of use.
Design Language: A unified visual style (colors, typography, spacing, button styles, 
iconography) must be applied across all screens.8•
Interaction Patterns: Standard UI elements (like back buttons, modals, form inputs) 
should behave predictably everywhere in the app.•
Efficiency: Primary actions within each section should be easily discoverable and require 
minimal interaction steps.7•
The way users navigate through an application fundamentally shapes their experience. 
Confusing or inefficient navigation is a primary reason users abandon apps, especially in the 
FinTech space where clarity and control are expected.7A standard, familiar pattern like a 
bottom tab bar 7provides an immediate sense of orientation. Consistent labeling and 
   AI stock APP Page 886    
bottom tab bar 7provides an immediate sense of orientation. Consistent labeling and 
iconography reduce the cognitive load required to learn the app.7By carefully mapping out the 
steps involved in key tasks (like researching a stock or adding a holding), potential friction 
points or illogical transitions can be identified and smoothed out during the design phase. 
Ultimately, effortless navigation contributes significantly to the user's perception of the app's 
overall quality, simplicity, and trustworthiness.7
IX. Conclusion: Key Design Principles and Next Steps
A. Summary of Core Recommendations
This design blueprint outlines a user interface and experience for the AI Stock App centered on 
empowering investors through a blend of sophisticated AI analysis and intuitive design. The 
core recommendations underpinning this design are:
Prioritize Trust and Security: Implement transparent AI explanations, clear security 
messaging, biometric options, and ensure data reliability.1.
Ensure Simplicity and Clarity: Employ intuitive navigation, clear labeling, effective data 
visualization, and minimize cognitive load, especially on the dashboard.2.
Deliver Powerful Personalization: Leverage AI and user profile data (especially risk 
tolerance) to tailor insights, recommendations, and dashboard views.3.
Focus on Actionable Insights: Design data displays and AI outputs to guide users toward 
informed decisions, not just present information.4.
Guarantee Intuitive Navigation: Utilize standard patterns like a bottom tab bar and 
ensure consistent design language for a seamless user journey.5.
The detailed designs for the Dashboard, Market Data (including the crucial TradingView 
charting integration), AI Analysis Hub (with emphasis on explainability and the summary table), 
manual -entry Portfolio Management, customizable Notifications, and User Profile/Settings 
(featuring the vital Risk Tolerance Questionnaire) provide a comprehensive foundation.
B. Iterative Development and Testing
The design process should not end with this blueprint. Building a successful financial application 
requires an iterative approach involving continuous feedback and refinement.9
Usability Testing: It is strongly recommended to conduct usability testing sessions with 
representative target users (spanning the novice -to-intermediate spectrum) at key stages 
of development.7Testing prototypes and early beta versions can uncover unforeseen 
usability issues, points of confusion, or areas where the design fails to meet user needs. 
Tools designed for session recording or interaction analysis can aid this process.14•
Feedback Incorporation: Insights gathered from user testing must be systematically 
analyzed and incorporated into subsequent design iterations.9This feedback loop is 
critical for ensuring the final product is truly user -centered and effective.•
Performance Monitoring: Post -launch, monitoring app performance, particularly the 
responsiveness of real -time data feeds and charting components, is essential.14•
C. Future Considerations
While this report focuses on the defined scope, several potential enhancements could be 
considered for future iterations:
Expanded Data: Support for additional exchanges, asset classes (e.g., ETFs, options), or 
deeper fundamental data points.•
Advanced AI Features: More sophisticated predictive models, portfolio optimization 
algorithms (beyond manual tracking), or AI -driven educational content generation.12•
Community/Social Features: Integration of social feeds, user forums, or idea sharing, •
   AI stock APP Page 887    
Community/Social Features: Integration of social feeds, user forums, or idea sharing, 
similar to platforms like StockTwits or TradingView's community aspects.3•
Educational Resources: Adding integrated learning modules or contextual help to further 
support beginner investors.12•
D. Call to Action
This detailed UI/UX design blueprint provides a robust and well -researched foundation for the 
development of the AI Stock App. By adhering to the principles of trust, clarity, personalization, 
actionability, and intuitive navigation, and by committing to an iterative, user -focused 
development process, the resulting application has the potential to effectively meet the needs 
of its target users and establish a strong position in the competitive FinTech landscape.
   AI stock APP Page 888    
AI Stock App: UI/UX Design Blueprint
I. Introduction: Setting the Vision for the AI Stock App
A. Value Proposition
The AI Stock App is envisioned as a sophisticated yet accessible tool designed to empower 
investors in navigating the complexities of the stock market. Its core value proposition lies in 
the seamless integration of advanced Artificial Intelligence (AI) capabilities —including machine 
learning, natural language processing (NLP), and predictive analytics —with an intuitive, user -
centric design [User Query]. Unlike many existing applications that may cater exclusively to 
beginners with overly simplified features 1or target seasoned experts with complex, potentially 
overwhelming interfaces 2, this app aims to bridge the gap. It seeks to provide both novice and 
intermediate investors with personalized, AI -driven insights, real -time market data, and 
portfolio management tools, fostering more informed and confident investment decisions.
A key differentiator is the commitment to a holistic analytical approach, leveraging AI to 
synthesize fundamental, technical, quantitative, and sentiment analysis [User Query]. This 
contrasts with platforms that might specialize in only one or two areas.3By offering a 
comprehensive analytical perspective powered by AI, the app intends to deliver deeper, more 
contextualized insights than readily available through basic screeners or news aggregators.6The 
manual portfolio entry, necessitated by limitations with direct broker APIs like Fidelity's [User 
Query], is acknowledged, positioning the app's value in the strength of its analytical tools and 
tracking capabilities once data is entered.
B. Core Design Philosophy
The design of the AI Stock App will be anchored in several fundamental principles crucial for 
success in the FinTech space:
Trust and Security: In finance, user trust is non -negotiable.7The design will actively cultivate 
trust through multiple avenues. Transparency will be key, particularly in how AI 
recommendations are generated and presented, avoiding a "black box" approach.10Clear 
communication regarding security measures, such as data encryption, secure authentication 
protocols (including multi -factor authentication -MFA), and optional biometric logins (Face ID, 
fingerprint), will be integrated into the user interface.7Furthermore, the reliability and accuracy 
of the presented data, especially real -time market information, are paramount for building and 
maintaining user confidence.12Trust badges or relevant regulatory compliance statements (e.g., 
alignment with SEC guidelines) can further reassure users.71.
Simplicity and Clarity: Financial data and analysis can be inherently complex. Therefore, the 
UI/UX must prioritize simplicity and clarity to prevent user confusion and cognitive overload.7
This involves implementing intuitive navigation patterns 7, using clear and consistent labeling 
for all elements 9, employing ample white space, and ensuring a clean, uncluttered aesthetic.9
Complex information, particularly financial data and AI analysis outputs, will be presented 
visually through well -designed charts and graphs wherever possible, making it more digestible 
and engaging than raw numbers or dense text.7The goal is an interface that feels effortless to 
use, even with sophisticated underlying functionality.82.
Personalization: Leveraging AI, the app experience will be tailored to the individual user.7This 
extends beyond basic watchlist customization to include personalized dashboard layouts 7, AI-3.Wednesday, April 23, 2025 2:51 PM
   AI stock APP Page 889    
extends beyond basic watchlist customization to include personalized dashboard layouts 7, AI-
driven insights relevant to the user's holdings and interests 10, and stock recommendations 
filtered and contextualized based on the user's defined investment goals and risk tolerance 
profile.8This personalization aims to make the user feel the app is specifically built for their 
needs, enhancing engagement and perceived value.7
Actionability: The app's design will focus not just on presenting data and analysis, but on 
empowering users to make informed decisions.11Insights derived from AI should be presented 
in a way that suggests potential actions or clarifies market conditions.12Data visualizations 
should guide users towards understanding trends and patterns, facilitating quicker and more 
confident decision -making.114.
A significant challenge in designing this app lies in reconciling the depth of its AI -driven 
analytical features with the imperative for simplicity and clarity.8Offering comprehensive 
analysis across fundamental, technical, quantitative, and sentiment dimensions inherently 
introduces complexity [User Query]. However, research consistently shows that overly complex 
interfaces deter users, particularly in the financial domain where trust and ease of use are 
paramount.7The solution lies in a design that embraces layered information and adaptability. 
The default user experience, especially on the main dashboard, must be clean and intuitive, 
prioritizing essential information. Deeper analytical tools and data points should be accessible 
through clear navigation paths and drill -downs, allowing users to explore complexity 
progressively as their needs and understanding grow. Customizable interfaces 8and potentially 
adaptive UI elements 11can further empower users to tailor the complexity to their preference, 
ensuring the app serves both the guided novice and the insight -seeking intermediate trader 
without overwhelming the former or frustrating the latter.
C. Target User Profile Refinement
The primary target audience for the AI Stock App includes individuals with a foundational 
understanding of stock trading and investment concepts [User Query: Assumption 8]. However, 
the design philosophy explicitly rejects a one -size-fits-all approach. It acknowledges the 
spectrum of users within this broad category, ranging from confident beginners who appreciate 
guidance and clear explanations 1to more experienced intermediate traders actively seeking 
sophisticated AI -powered analytical tools to gain an edge.
The UI/UX must therefore be flexible. It should provide scaffolding and educational cues 
(perhaps through tooltips, contextual help, or links to learning resources 7) for those less 
experienced, ensuring they are not intimidated by the available tools. Simultaneously, it must 
offer sufficient depth and control for intermediate users who want to dive deeper into the AI 
analysis, customize their views, and leverage the full analytical power of the platform. This 
differentiates the app from platforms strictly focused on absolute beginners 1or those built 
primarily for highly advanced, professional traders requiring institutional -level complexity.2An 
adaptive or layered approach to presenting information and features will be crucial.11
D. Report Structure Overview
This report details the proposed UI/UX design for the AI Stock App. Subsequent sections will 
cover the design specifics for each core functional area:
Section II: The Main Dashboard/Home Page design. •
Section III: The Real -Time Market Data section, including stock discovery and charting. •
Section IV: The AI -driven Analysis and Recommendations Hub. •
Section V: The Portfolio Management section, focusing on manual data entry and 
tracking.•
Section VI: The Notifications and Alerts system. •
   AI stock APP Page 890    
Section VI: The Notifications and Alerts system. •
Section VII: The User Profile and Settings area, including the risk tolerance assessment. •
Section VIII: The overall application Navigation Flow. •
Section IX: Concluding remarks on key principles and the iterative development process. •
II. The Command Center: Designing the Main Dashboard/Home Page
A. Purpose and Goals
The Main Dashboard, or Home Page, serves as the user's primary entry point and command 
center within the AI Stock App. Its fundamental purpose is to provide an immediate, 
personalized, and actionable overview of the user's relevant financial landscape upon opening 
the app.7It must deliver "immediate value" 7by consolidating critical information, reducing the 
need for users to navigate through multiple screens to grasp their current situation. Key goals 
include displaying a snapshot of market conditions, summarizing portfolio performance, 
highlighting urgent alerts or news, providing quick access to frequently used features like 
search and portfolio details, and potentially teasing personalized AI insights.12
B. Layout and Information Hierarchy
Achieving the dashboard's goals requires a meticulously planned layout prioritizing clarity and 
immediate comprehension. A strong visual hierarchy is essential to guide the user's eye to the 
most critical information first.14Techniques such as strategic use of size, color (e.g., green for 
gains, red for losses), typography, and placement will be employed to differentiate primary 
information (like portfolio value changes or critical alerts) from secondary data.14
The dashboard will be structured around several key components, likely arranged in a modular 
or card -based format 17for clarity and potential future customization:
Market Overview: A concise summary displaying the real -time performance (price change 
and percentage change) of major market indices relevant to the user (e.g., S&P 500, 
NASDAQ, Dow Jones).23This provides immediate context on the broader market 
environment.•
Portfolio Snapshot: This is arguably the most crucial element for many users. It will 
prominently display the total portfolio value, the day's gain or loss (both absolute value 
and percentage), and potentially the overall total gain/loss.12A small sparkline or mini -
chart illustrating the portfolio's recent performance trend could enhance visual 
understanding.7•
Key Alerts/Notifications: A dedicated and highly visible area for displaying critical, 
personalized, and unread alerts upon app startup, as per requirements [User Query: 4.6]. 
This could include significant price movements in portfolio holdings, user -defined price 
target hits, or important AI -driven notifications.7•
Watchlist Summary: A compact view showing the top performing and worst performing 
stocks from the user's primary watchlist, providing a quick glance at stocks they are 
actively monitoring.17•
AI-Driven Insights Snippet: A small, dynamic section designed to surface a single, 
compelling personalized insight or recommendation generated by the app's AI engine 
(e.g., "AI sentiment analysis for turned strongly positive today.").10This serves as a hook, 
encouraging users to explore the full AI Analysis section via a direct link.•
Quick Actions: Clearly identifiable buttons or icons for the most frequent user actions, 
such as initiating a stock search, navigating directly to the full portfolio view, or accessing 
the trade execution screen (even if execution itself is outside the app).7These should be 
easily accessible, potentially in a persistent header or near the bottom navigation.•
The layout should prioritize placing the Portfolio Snapshot and Key Alerts "above the fold" or in 
   AI stock APP Page 891    
The layout should prioritize placing the Portfolio Snapshot and Key Alerts "above the fold" or in 
the most prominent positions to ensure users see the most vital information immediately upon 
launching the app.
C. Customization and Personalization
To enhance user satisfaction and ensure relevance, the dashboard should offer personalization 
options.7Users should be able to tailor the dashboard to their priorities. This could involve:
Widget Rearrangement: Allowing users to drag and drop or reorder the different 
components (Market Overview, Portfolio Snapshot, Watchlist, etc.) based on what they 
want to see first.17•
Component Visibility: Enabling users to hide or show specific widgets if they find them 
irrelevant.17•
Metric Selection: Potentially allowing users to choose which specific metrics are displayed 
within certain widgets (e.g., showing total gain/loss vs. daily gain/loss in the portfolio 
snapshot).•
This customization empowers users, giving them a sense of control over their experience and 
ensuring the dashboard remains highly relevant to their individual needs and preferences.8
D. Data Presentation
Even in summary views, data must be presented clearly and effectively. This involves using:
Appropriate Visualizations: Employing mini -charts (sparklines), clear color -coding 
(green/red for positive/negative changes), and potentially progress bars or gauges where 
appropriate.7•
Concise Formatting: Displaying numbers clearly and consistently, using appropriate units 
and precision.•
Real -Time Perception: Ensuring data updates feel immediate and accurate, reinforcing 
the app's reliability.12•
The dashboard serves as the primary interface for the user's interaction with their financial 
information within the app. As such, its design is critical not only for usability but also for 
establishing and maintaining trust.7A cluttered, confusing, or difficult -to-navigate dashboard 
can quickly erode user confidence and lead to abandonment.7Conversely, a clean, well -
organized dashboard that presents the most important, personalized information (like portfolio 
status and critical alerts) immediately and clearly builds user confidence and provides instant 
value.7Offering customization options further strengthens this by giving users control and 
ensuring the information presented aligns directly with their individual priorities.8Furthermore, 
by providing clear links from dashboard elements (like AI insight snippets or alert summaries) to 
the corresponding detailed sections, the design fosters transparency and allows users to easily 
explore information further.15Therefore, the dashboard design must be executed with 
meticulous attention to detail, focusing on clarity, prioritization of user needs, and intuitive 
customization capabilities, establishing it as the trustworthy anchor of the user experience.
III. Real -Time Market Pulse: Designing the Market Data Section
A. Stock Discovery and Search
Providing users with efficient ways to find and research stocks is a core function. This section 
must facilitate easy discovery and access to detailed information for securities listed on 
supported exchanges like NYSE and NASDAQ [User Query: 4.2].
Search Functionality: A prominent search bar, readily accessible from the main navigation 
or dashboard, is essential.7This search should support queries by both ticker symbol and •
   AI stock APP Page 892    
or dashboard, is essential.7This search should support queries by both ticker symbol and 
company name. Implementing intelligent features like auto -completion and suggestion 
lists as the user types can significantly speed up the process and improve usability. Search 
results should clearly display the company name, ticker symbol, and the exchange it 
trades on.
Data Source Integration: The app relies on third -party providers for real -time market data 
[User Query: 8]. Potential sources include Alpha Vantage 28, IEX Cloud 29, dedicated 
exchange feeds like Nasdaq TotalView or Nasdaq Basic 30, or comprehensive providers like 
Polygon.io.32The choice of API provider will impact data granularity, latency, and cost, 
and is a critical dependency. The UI should ideally mask the underlying source complexity 
from the end -user, presenting data seamlessly.•
Browsing and Filtering: Beyond direct search, the app should offer ways to browse the 
market. This could include predefined lists such as: 
Market Movers: Sections showcasing top daily gainers and losers across supported 
exchanges.•
Sector/Industry Views: Allowing users to explore stocks grouped by industry or 
sector 23, potentially visualizing sector performance.•
Curated Lists: Potentially featuring lists based on themes, analyst ratings (if 
available), or trending stocks discussed in news or social media.••
B. Stock Detail Page
Once a user selects a stock, the Stock Detail Page provides an in -depth view. This page must be 
information -rich yet remain clear and easy to parse.
Header: The top of the page should clearly display the company's full name, ticker symbol, 
and the primary exchange. Crucially, it must show the current stock price, the day's price 
change (both absolute value and percentage, clearly color -coded), and potentially the last 
trade time or indication of real -time status. Buttons for core actions like "Add to 
Watchlist" and "Trade" (linking to the execution workflow, even if external) should be 
prominent. Information on after -hours or pre -market trading, if available from the data 
source, should also be presented here.•
Charting: The centerpiece of the Stock Detail Page is the interactive stock chart. 
Primary Chart Type: The default view should be a candlestick chart, as this is the 
standard and most information -rich format for traders.27However, users should 
have the option to switch to simpler visualizations like line charts (plotting closing 
prices) or area charts.33•
Timeframes: Easy -to-tap controls for selecting various chart timeframes are 
essential (e.g., 1 Day (Intraday), 5 Day, 1 Month, 3 Month, 6 Month, Year -to-Date 
(YTD), 1 Year, 5 Year, Max).17The selected timeframe should be clearly indicated.•
Technical Indicators: While the default chart should be clean to avoid overwhelming 
users 37, the ability to overlay common technical indicators is a requirement [User 
Query: 3]. Users should be able to select and configure indicators such as Moving 
Averages (SMA, EMA), Relative Strength Index (RSI), Moving Average Convergence 
Divergence (MACD), and Bollinger Bands.17A manageable list of the most popular 
indicators should be offered, with potentially an option to customize parameters.•
Volume Display: A bar chart representing trading volume corresponding to the main 
chart's timeframe should be displayed directly below the price chart.33Volume 
provides crucial context for price movements.•
Interactivity: The chart must be interactive, allowing users to pan across time and 
zoom in/out on price levels smoothly.39Hovering or tapping on the chart should 
display a crosshair showing the specific date/time, OHLC prices, and volume for that ••
   AI stock APP Page 893    
display a crosshair showing the specific date/time, OHLC prices, and volume for that 
data point.40
Visualization Best Practices: Adherence to data visualization best practices is critical 
for chart clarity and usability. This includes using clear axis labels, ensuring 
appropriate scaling (price axis should adapt to data; volume axis should ideally start 
at zero 37), avoiding visual clutter like excessive gridlines 37, using standard color 
conventions (e.g., green/red or blue/red for up/down candles 33), ensuring text is 
legible, and guaranteeing the chart is responsive and performs well on various 
screen sizes.15•
Charting Library Recommendation: Selecting the right charting library is a pivotal 
decision impacting development effort, performance, and user experience. Based on 
its widespread use in financial applications 3, open -source nature, focus on 
performance with large datasets and real -time updates, mobile -friendliness, and 
comprehensive feature set specifically for financial charting, TradingView 
Lightweight Charts is strongly recommended.34Its adoption provides a degree of 
industry standard familiarity. Development teams should be aware of specific 
integration patterns for React, including options for simple embedding or more 
complex component structures 42, potential complexities with React Native 
integration (often requiring WebViews) 43, and mobile -specific rendering 
behaviors.46While alternatives like Recharts 47, Nivo 47, Chart.js 51, or commercial 
options 51exist, TradingView's specialization offers significant advantages for this 
specific application type. The implications of this choice are substantial; it dictates 
the visual possibilities, the interactive feel, the rendering performance, and the 
development path for one of the app's most critical user interface elements.•
Key Statistics: Below or alongside the chart, a clearly organized section should display key 
statistical data points for the stock. This typically includes: Today's Open, High, Low, 
Previous Close (OHLC data), Trading Volume, Market Capitalization, 52 -Week High and 
Low prices, and potentially Average Daily Volume.21Providing context, like comparing 
current volume to average volume, can add value.•
Link to AI Analysis: A clear and prominent button, tab, or link should allow the user to 
seamlessly navigate from the market data view to the dedicated AI Analysis Hub for the 
currently viewed stock.•
Company Information: A brief section providing context about the company, including a 
short business description, its sector, and industry classification.•
C. News Integration
Contextual news is vital for understanding stock movements. This section should feature a feed 
of recent news articles relevant to the specific stock being viewed.3
Content: Display headlines, source (e.g., Reuters, Bloomberg, Yahoo Finance), and 
publication timestamp. Tapping a headline should ideally open the article in an in -app 
browser or link out.•
Relevance: Ensure news is timely and directly related to the company or factors 
significantly impacting its industry.•
Sentiment Indication: If the AI engine performs sentiment analysis on news articles 55, 
consider displaying a sentiment indicator (e.g., positive/negative/neutral icon) next to 
each headline for a quick assessment of news tone.•
IV. AI -Powered Insights Engine: Designing the Analysis & Recommendations 
Hub
A. Overall Structure and Navigation
   AI stock APP Page 894    
A. Overall Structure and Navigation
This hub is the core of the app's AI capabilities, providing users with deeper analytical insights 
beyond raw market data. To manage the potentially large amount of information generated by 
different AI models, a clear structure is essential.
Dedicated Section: The AI Analysis Hub should be a distinct, top -level section accessible 
from the main navigation (e.g., bottom tab bar).7It should also be contextually accessible 
from individual stock detail pages, automatically loading the analysis for that specific 
stock.•
Information Architecture: Within the hub for a selected stock, use tabs, accordions, or 
distinct sub -sections to organize the analysis by type: 
Fundamental Analysis: Ratios, financial health, NLP summaries. •
Technical Analysis: Patterns, forecasts. •
Quantitative Analysis: Model outputs (if applicable). •
Sentiment Analysis: Scores, trends, source breakdown. •
AI Recommendation / Summary: Consolidated view and actionable signals. This 
segmented approach prevents overwhelming the user and allows them to focus on 
the type of analysis most relevant to them.14••
Consistency: Maintain a consistent layout and presentation style for the AI analysis across 
different stocks, enabling users to easily compare insights between potential investments.•
B. Visualizing Fundamental Analysis
AI can significantly enhance traditional fundamental analysis by processing vast amounts of 
data and text.
Key Ratios Display: Present the core fundamental ratios specified: Price -to-Earnings (P/E), 
Price -to-Book (P/B), Price -to-Sales (P/S), Price -to-Cash Flow (P/CF), Debt -to-Equity, Return 
on Equity (ROE), and various Profit Margins (Gross, Operating, Net).28Sourcing this data 
requires reliable APIs like Alpha Vantage.28Crucially, don't just display the raw numbers. 
Provide context by: 
Visualizing ratios using gauges or bar charts comparing the stock's current ratio to its 
historical range or industry benchmarks.7•
Clearly indicating whether a ratio is considered favorable or unfavorable based on 
common financial principles or AI assessment.••
NLP-Powered Summaries: Leverage NLP models (like GPT or BERT mentioned in the User 
Query) to process and summarize lengthy financial documents [User Query: 2]. Display 
concise, AI -generated summaries of: 
SEC Filings (e.g., 10 -K, 10 -Q key takeaways). •
Earnings Call Transcripts (highlighting key management commentary).•
Financial News Reports (extracting core information). Present these summaries in 
easily digestible formats like bullet points or short paragraphs.57Always attribute the 
summary to the source document and include the date. Explicitly highlight any 
bullish or bearish signals detected by the NLP model during analysis [User Query: 2].••
Financial Health Score: Consider developing an AI -driven composite score (e.g., on a 1 -5 
or 0-100 scale) that summarizes the overall fundamental health of the company.10This 
score should be accompanied by a brief explanation highlighting the key factors (e.g., 
strong revenue growth, high debt levels) that contributed to the score, enhancing 
transparency.•
C. Presenting Technical Analysis
AI excels at identifying complex patterns and forecasting trends in price and volume data.
   AI stock APP Page 895    
Pattern Recognition: When the AI detects significant technical patterns (e.g., Head and 
Shoulders, Triangles, Flags, Moving Average Crossovers) [User Query: 3], visually overlay 
or highlight these patterns directly on a simplified stock chart within this section.3
Accompany the visual with a brief text explanation of the pattern and its typical 
implication (e.g., "Bullish Pennant detected, often precedes upward breakout").•
Time -Series Forecasts: Display AI -generated price forecasts (e.g., using LSTM or ARIMA 
models [User Query: 3]) visually.18This should typically be shown as an extension of the 
historical price chart into the future. It is critical to represent the inherent uncertainty in 
any forecast. Display confidence intervals, probability bands, or multiple potential 
forecast paths rather than a single deterministic line. Clearly label the forecast period 
(e.g., "Next 30 days forecast"). Avoid presenting forecasts as guarantees.•
Reinforcement Learning Strategy Insights: If Reinforcement Learning (RL) is employed to 
optimize trading strategies [User Query: 3], this section could visualize the backtested 
performance of AI -suggested strategies for the specific stock (e.g., simulated equity curve, 
key performance metrics like Sharpe ratio or max drawdown).•
D. Integrating Quantitative Models & Sentiment Analysis
This section houses insights from statistical models and the analysis of subjective opinions.
Quantitative Analysis: If the app incorporates quantitative models beyond standard 
technical indicators (e.g., factor models, statistical arbitrage models), their outputs should 
be presented here. The visualization will depend heavily on the model type. Examples 
include displaying factor exposures (bar chart), risk predictions (numerical score or 
gauge), or probability scores for certain market events. Simplicity is key unless the app 
specifically targets quantitative analysts.•
Sentiment Analysis Dashboard: This provides a powerful lens into market mood regarding 
a specific stock, aggregating opinions from various sources [User Query: 4]. 
Overall Sentiment Score: Display a clear gauge, numerical score (e.g., -1 to +1 for 
polarity, or 0 -100 for positivity), or simple label (Positive, Negative, Neutral, Mixed) 
summarizing the current aggregated sentiment.56Tools like NLTK's VADER 60, 
financial -specific models like FinBERT 56, or cloud services like Azure AI Language 61
can power this.•
Sentiment Trend Over Time: Use a line chart to illustrate how the aggregated 
sentiment score has evolved (e.g., daily or weekly over the past month or quarter).55
This helps identify shifts in market perception.•
Sentiment by Source: A pie chart or stacked bar chart can show the breakdown of 
sentiment across different sources analyzed (e.g., Financial News, Twitter, Reddit 
forums like r/WallStreetBets).61This reveals if sentiment differs significantly across 
platforms.•
Key Topics and Keywords: Utilize NLP techniques like topic modeling or keyword 
extraction to identify the main themes driving positive or negative sentiment. 
Display these using word clouds (where word size indicates frequency) or ranked 
lists of keywords/phrases.58•
Example Sentiment Snippets: Potentially show a few anonymized, representative 
examples of recent positive and negative comments or news headlines that 
contributed to the score, providing qualitative context.••
E. Delivering Personalized Recommendations
This is where the various AI analyses converge into actionable guidance tailored to the user.
Clear Buy/Sell/Hold Signals: Present the AI's final recommendation using unambiguous 
visual cues (e.g., distinct icons, clear color -coding) and explicit labels (Buy, Strong Buy, •
   AI stock APP Page 896    
visual cues (e.g., distinct icons, clear color -coding) and explicit labels (Buy, Strong Buy, 
Hold, Sell, Strong Sell).3
Explanation ("The Why"): This is arguably the most critical element for building trust and 
utility. Each recommendation must be accompanied by a concise, human -readable 
explanation detailing the primary reasons behind it.10This explanation should explicitly 
reference the key findings from the different analysis types (e.g., "Recommendation: Buy. 
Justification: Strong positive sentiment trend observed across news and social media 
[link], coupled with improving P/E ratio below industry average [link] and recent bullish 
Moving Average crossover pattern [link]."). This transparency allows users to understand 
the basis of the recommendation and builds confidence in the AI.7AI itself (LLMs) might 
be used to help generate these summary justifications.10•
Confidence Level: Associate a confidence score or qualitative level (e.g., High, Medium, 
Low Confidence) with each recommendation, acknowledging that AI predictions are 
probabilistic.•
Risk Profile Alignment: Explicitly connect the recommendation to the user's defined risk 
tolerance profile.8For instance, add a note like: "This 'Aggressive Growth' stock aligns 
with your stated risk tolerance profile." or "Caution: This 'Speculative Buy' 
recommendation carries high risk, which may exceed your 'Moderate' risk tolerance 
profile." This personalization makes the recommendation far more relevant and 
responsible.•
AI Stock Screener Integration: If the app features an AI -powered stock screener [User 
Query: 7], the results should be presented in a clear list format within this section or a 
dedicated screener page. The list should show key AI -derived metrics or scores used for 
screening, allow sorting and filtering, and provide direct links from each listed stock to its 
detailed AI Analysis Hub page.•
The successful adoption of AI in financial applications hinges significantly on user trust and 
understanding. Users are often skeptical of opaque algorithms making financial suggestions.7
Simply presenting a final output like a "Buy" signal or a numerical score without justification can 
be perceived as arbitrary and untrustworthy.10The power of this app lies in its ability to analyze 
diverse data streams –fundamentals 28, technicals [User Query: 3], sentiment from text 58, and 
quantitative factors. The UI design must leverage this by making the evidence behind AI 
conclusions visible. Displaying the specific ratios, patterns, sentiment trends, or NLP summaries 
that led to a particular recommendation transforms the AI from an inscrutable oracle into a 
transparent analytical tool. Utilizing AI itself, particularly Large Language Models mentioned in 
the initial requirements [User Query: 2], to generate natural language summaries of the 
reasoning process 10can further enhance this explainability. Therefore, the design of the AI 
Analysis Hub, and especially the Recommendations section, must be architected around the 
principle of "show, don't just tell," making the reasoning transparent and fostering user 
confidence.
Table 1: AI Analysis Summary Table (Example for a Specific Stock)
Location: AI Analysis Hub -Summary/Recommendation Tab
Analysis Area Current Status / Score Key Drivers Link to 
Details
Fundamental 
HealthImproving (Score: 75/100) Strong YoY Revenue Growth, Moderate 
P/E Ratio[View 
Details]
Technical Bullish Golden Cross (50 -day MA > 200 -day [View 
   AI stock APP Page 897    
Technical 
OutlookBullish Golden Cross (50 -day MA > 200 -day 
MA), Breakout[View 
Details]
Sentiment Trend Strongly Positive High positive news volume, Rising social 
buzz[View 
Details]
Quantitative 
SignalNeutral Factor exposures within expected range [View 
Details]
Overall AI Rating Strong Buy Confidence: High
Risk Profile Fit Aligns with 'Aggressive Growth' 
profile[View 
Profile]
Value Rationale: This table provides a crucial synthesis of the complex, multi -faceted AI 
analysis. It allows users to quickly grasp the overall picture 14by summarizing outputs from 
different analytical dimensions (fundamental, technical, sentiment, quantitative).11Highlighting 
the key drivers for each assessment offers immediate context and supports the explainability 
goal.10Direct links facilitate easy drill -down into the detailed analysis sections for users seeking 
more depth.14Presenting the final recommendation alongside a confidence level and explicit 
risk profile alignment makes the output highly actionable and personalized, reinforcing the 
app's value proposition and building user trust.
V. User Portfolio Hub: Designing the Portfolio Management Section
A. Manual Data Entry
A core constraint specified is the inability to directly connect to certain brokerage accounts (like 
Fidelity) via API for automated portfolio tracking. Consequently, the app must rely on manual 
user input for portfolio holdings. This necessitates a design that minimizes friction and 
maximizes ease of use for this potentially tedious task.
Input Interface: The UI for adding a new holding must be streamlined and intuitive. It 
should consist of a simple form requiring: 
Stock Symbol/Name: An input field with robust search and autocomplete 
functionality, pulling from the same stock database used in the Market Data section, 
to quickly find and select the correct security.•
Quantity: A numerical input for the number of shares purchased. •
Purchase Price: A numerical input for the price paid per share. •
Purchase Date: A date picker for the transaction date. ••
Editing and Deleting: Clear options must be available within the portfolio view to edit 
existing entries (e.g., correct errors) or delete holdings that have been sold.•
Minimizing Friction: The process should require the fewest possible taps or clicks. 
Consider features like remembering frequently entered symbols or allowing batch 
additions if feasible, although simplicity should be the priority.7•
B. Portfolio Overview Dashboard
Once users have entered their holdings, the Portfolio section must provide a clear, 
comprehensive, and visually engaging overview of their investments.
Key Performance Metrics: The top of the overview should prominently display essential 
summary figures: 
Total Portfolio Value: The current market value of all holdings. •
Total Gain/Loss: The overall profit or loss across the entire portfolio, shown in both 
absolute currency value and percentage terms.•
Day's Gain/Loss: The change in portfolio value during the current trading day, also •
   AI stock APP Page 898    
Day's Gain/Loss: The change in portfolio value during the current trading day, also 
shown in absolute value and percentage.•
Cash Balance (Optional): If the app allows users to track cash, this should be 
displayed here.•
Visualizations: Effective data visualization is key to making portfolio performance easy to 
understand.7 
Performance Chart: A line or area chart showing the portfolio's total value over 
user -selectable time periods (e.g., 1 Day, 1 Week, 1 Month, YTD, 1 Year, All Time). 
This provides an immediate visual representation of growth or decline. Optionally, 
allow comparison against a relevant benchmark index (like the S&P 500) to provide 
performance context.•
Allocation Breakdown: Visualize how the portfolio is allocated. A donut chart or 
treemap can effectively display the proportion of the portfolio invested in each 
individual stock.37Alternatively, allocation could be shown by sector or industry if 
this data is associated with the entered stocks. Ensure adherence to best practices 
for these chart types (e.g., limit segments in donut charts, use clear labeling 37).••
Holdings Summary Table: A detailed list of all current holdings, presented in a sortable 
table format.21Essential columns include: 
Stock Symbol/Company Name•
Quantity Held•
Current Market Price (real -time) •
Day's Change (absolute and percentage)•
Total Current Market Value of the holding•
Total Gain/Loss for the holding (absolute and percentage) Allowing users to sort this 
table by different columns (e.g., by value, by gain/loss) provides flexibility in 
analyzing their positions.••
C. Individual Holding Detail View
Tapping on a specific stock within the summary table should navigate the user to a detailed 
view for that particular holding. This view provides more granular information:
Purchase Details: Display the original purchase information (quantity, price, date). If the 
user has made multiple purchases (lots) of the same stock, the app should ideally track 
these separately to allow for accurate cost basis calculation (though this adds complexity 
to the manual entry).•
Performance Metrics: Show the current market value of this specific holding, the total 
gain or loss (absolute and percentage) since purchase, and potentially the annualized 
return.•
Cost Basis: Clearly display the calculated cost basis for the holding. •
Mini -Chart: Include a small chart showing the price performance of just this stock since 
the user's purchase date(s).•
Contextual Links: Provide prominent buttons or links to navigate directly to the full 
Market Data page and the AI Analysis Hub for this specific stock, facilitating deeper 
research.•
D. Reporting Features
While limited by manual data entry, some basic reporting can add value.
Potential Reports: Consider offering simple, viewable (or potentially downloadable CSV) 
reports such as: 
Performance Summary: A snapshot of current values, gains/losses across all 
holdings.••
   AI stock APP Page 899    
holdings.
Realized Gains/Losses: If the app includes functionality for users to mark holdings as 
sold (requiring input of sale price and date), a report summarizing realized 
gains/losses for tax purposes could be generated.•
Dividend Tracking: If users can manually input received dividends, a report 
summarizing dividend income could be offered.•
Simplicity: Given the manual nature of the data, reporting features should be kept 
relatively simple initially to manage development complexity and user expectations.•
The requirement for manual portfolio entry presents a significant usability challenge compared 
to platforms offering automated brokerage integration.7Users are generally averse to manual 
data input, especially for potentially large portfolios. Therefore, the design must prioritize 
making the input process as quick, simple, and error -free as possible.7The core value 
proposition for this section shifts: the app provides powerful tracking, visualization, and analysis 
after the user invests the effort to input their data. To justify this effort and retain users, the 
output –the portfolio overview, performance charts, allocation breakdowns, and seamless 
integration with the AI analysis features –must be exceptionally clear, visually appealing, and 
provide insights that are not easily obtainable otherwise.7The focus must be on delivering 
tangible value from the manually entered data.
VI. Staying Informed: Designing Notifications and Alerts
A. Alert Presentation
Timely information is crucial in volatile stock markets. The notification system must deliver 
relevant alerts effectively without becoming intrusive.
Startup Display: As explicitly required [User Query: 4.6], critical, unacknowledged alerts 
must be presented prominently when the user launches the app. This could take the form 
of: 
A modal dialog box that appears on startup, summarizing key alerts and requiring 
dismissal.•
A dedicated, highlighted section at the top of the main dashboard.7•
A persistent notification badge on the navigation bar, leading to an alert center. The 
goal is to ensure the user cannot miss potentially important updates related to their 
portfolio or monitored stocks immediately upon opening the app.••
Push Notifications: For time -sensitive information when the app is closed, standard 
mobile push notifications should be utilized.12These should be concise and clearly state 
the reason for the alert.•
In-App Notification Center: A dedicated section within the app should serve as a historical 
log of all received notifications and alerts. This allows users to review past alerts they may 
have missed or dismissed.•
B. Types of Alerts
The system should support a range of alert types, balancing market -wide information with 
personalized updates:
Market -Based Alerts: 
Notifications for significant movements (e.g., > +/ -2%) in major indices (S&P 500, 
NASDAQ).•
Warnings about periods of high market volatility.••
Stock -Specific Alerts (for Portfolio & Watchlist items): 
User -Defined Price Targets: Alerts triggered when a stock reaches a specific price 
level set by the user.17••
   AI stock APP Page 900    
level set by the user.17
Significant Price Change: Alerts for large daily percentage changes (e.g., 
configurable threshold like +/ -5% or +/ -10%).•
Unusual Volume: Notifications when trading volume significantly exceeds the 
average, potentially indicating heightened interest or institutional activity.17•
Corporate Actions/Events: Alerts for upcoming earnings announcement dates, 
dividend dates, or stock splits for relevant companies.•
Analyst Rating Changes: If the app integrates analyst rating data, alerts for 
significant upgrades or downgrades.•
AI-Driven Alerts: Leveraging the app's unique capabilities: 
New Recommendations: Notifications when the AI generates a new Buy/Sell/Hold 
recommendation for a stock in the user's portfolio or watchlist.•
Sentiment Shifts: Alerts triggered by a significant change in the AI -detected 
sentiment score (e.g., moving from Neutral to Strongly Positive) for a relevant 
stock.55•
Technical Pattern Detection: Notifications when the AI identifies a potentially 
significant technical chart pattern (e.g., breakout confirmation).••
Portfolio -Related Alerts: 
Notifications when the overall portfolio value crosses a certain threshold or 
experiences a large single -day gain/loss.•
Alerts when an individual holding reaches a significant gain or loss milestone (e.g., +
50% gain, -20% loss).••
C. Customization
To prevent alert fatigue and ensure relevance, granular user control over notifications is 
essential.7
Category Control: Users must be able to easily enable or disable broad categories of alerts 
(e.g., turn off all Market -Based alerts, enable only AI -Driven alerts for portfolio stocks).8•
Stock -Level Control: Allow users to set specific price target alerts for individual stocks in 
their portfolio or watchlist.•
Threshold Adjustment: For alerts based on percentage change or volume, allow users to 
adjust the sensitivity thresholds.•
Delivery Method: Provide options to control whether alerts are delivered via push 
notification, shown in -app only, or both.•
Meaningful Content: Ensure alert messages are clear, concise, and provide enough 
context for the user to understand the significance without necessarily opening the app 
immediately. Avoid generic or overly frequent notifications that add noise rather than 
signal.7•
Notifications serve as a powerful mechanism for engagement and timely information delivery in 
financial apps.7However, their effectiveness is easily undermined if they become excessive or 
irrelevant, leading to user annoyance and eventual disabling of the feature.7The key is to 
ensure alerts provide high -signal information tailored to the user's specific context –their 
portfolio, their watchlist, and their stated interests. AI -driven alerts, such as new 
recommendations or significant sentiment shifts, offer a unique value proposition but must be 
carefully curated for quality and relevance. Providing users with comprehensive and easy -to-
use customization options 8is crucial for managing alert frequency and ensuring that the 
system delivers valuable signals rather than distracting noise. The requirement to show critical 
alerts on startup [User Query: 4.6] should be implemented thoughtfully, prioritizing only the 
most urgent and unacknowledged information to avoid disrupting the user's initial interaction 
with the app.
   AI stock APP Page 901    
with the app.
VII. Personalization Core: Designing User Profile and Settings
A. Account Management
This section handles fundamental user account operations and security configurations.
Onboarding: The initial signup and login process should be streamlined and efficient, 
potentially using progressive onboarding techniques to introduce features gradually 
rather than overwhelming users upfront.7•
Security Settings: Given the sensitive nature of financial data, robust and accessible 
security settings are paramount. Users must be able to: 
Change their password securely.•
Enable, disable, and manage Multi -Factor Authentication (MFA) methods (e.g., SMS, 
authenticator app).•
Configure biometric login options (Face ID, Fingerprint) for convenient yet secure 
access.7The app should clearly communicate the security measures in place (e.g., 
encryption standards) to build user confidence.7••
Basic Information: Allow users to view and potentially edit basic profile details like their 
name and email address.•
B. Investment Preferences and Goals
Capturing user preferences allows for deeper personalization of insights and recommendations.
Investment Goals: Provide an optional section where users can define their primary 
investment objectives (e.g., Long -Term Growth, Retirement Savings, Income Generation, 
Short -Term Speculation, Buying a Home).63•
Time Horizon: Allow users to specify their general investment time horizon (e.g., Short -
term < 3 years, Medium -term 3 -10 years, Long -term > 10 years).63•
Interests (Optional): Consider allowing users to indicate interest in specific market sectors 
(e.g., Technology, Healthcare, Energy) or investment styles (e.g., Value Investing, Growth 
Investing, ESG -Environmental, Social, Governance). This information can be used by the 
AI engine to filter recommendations, tailor news feeds, and provide more relevant 
analytical insights.•
C. Risk Tolerance Assessment
Understanding a user's willingness and capacity to take investment risk is fundamental to 
providing personalized and suitable recommendations.8
Questionnaire Implementation: A dedicated risk tolerance questionnaire should be 
implemented, ideally presented during onboarding but also accessible later via Settings.63 
Content Strategy: The questionnaire should consist of a series of well -crafted, 
multiple -choice questions designed to assess various facets of risk tolerance.63
Drawing from established financial planning questionnaires 63, questions should 
cover: 
Time Horizon & Life Cycle: How long until the funds are needed? 63•
Investment Knowledge & Experience: User's self -assessed understanding of 
investments.63•
Emotional Response to Volatility: How would the user react to significant 
portfolio drops? 63•
Loss Aversion: Preference between avoiding loss vs. seeking higher gains.63•
Risk/Reward Trade -off:Choice between different hypothetical investment 
scenarios with varying potential gains and losses.63•
Investment Goals: Primary objective for investing (capital preservation, ••
   AI stock APP Page 902    
Investment Goals: Primary objective for investing (capital preservation, 
income, growth).63•
Financial Capacity: User's ability to withstand potential losses without 
jeopardizing financial stability (though harder to assess accurately via 
questionnaire alone).65•
Format and Length: Aim for approximately 7 -13 concise questions to gather 
sufficient information without causing fatigue.63The language should be clear and 
avoid jargon. Consider using interactive elements, progress indicators, or simple 
graphics to make the questionnaire more engaging than a static form.63•
Scoring Mechanism: Implement a scoring system where each answer choice contributes 
points towards an overall risk tolerance score.69•
Profile Presentation: Based on the calculated score, assign the user to a clear risk profile 
category (e.g., Conservative, Moderately Conservative, Moderate, Moderately Aggressive, 
Aggressive).63A numerical score (e.g., 0 -100) could also be displayed.70The user's profile 
should be clearly presented in their Settings, accompanied by a brief, easy -to-understand 
explanation of what that profile implies for investment strategy.•
Reassessment: Risk tolerance is not static; it can change due to age, experience, financial 
situation, or market events.68The app should include functionality to retake the 
questionnaire and prompt users to do so periodically (e.g., annually) or suggest it after 
major life events are potentially indicated (though this is harder to track automatically).68•
Risk tolerance assessment is more than just an onboarding checkbox; it's a dynamic input 
crucial for delivering on the promise of personalized AI recommendations [User Query: 4.3]. A 
well-constructed questionnaire, grounded in established financial advisory practices 63, is 
necessary to gauge the user's comfort with and capacity for risk. It's important to recognize the 
distinction between risk tolerance (emotional comfort) and risk capacity (financial ability) 65, 
although questionnaires primarily gauge tolerance. Because this tolerance can evolve 68, the 
design must incorporate mechanisms for reassessment, ensuring the personalization remains 
relevant over time. The AI recommendation engine must then explicitly reference this user -
defined profile when generating and presenting suggestions, adding a layer of suitability and 
responsibility to its outputs.
Table 2: Risk Tolerance Questionnaire Outline (Illustrative)
Location: Section VII.C Design Details
| # | Question Summary | Response Options (Example Scoring) | Dimension Assessed |
| :-: | :-----------------------------------------------------
| :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :----------------------------- |
| 1 | Investment Time Horizon / Years until withdrawal | < 2 years (1), 2 -5 years (2), 6 -10 years (3), > 10 
years (4) | Time Horizon 63 |
| 2 | Investment Knowledge Level | None (1), Low (2), Medium (3), High (4) | Knowledge/Experience 63 
|
| 3 | Reaction to a 20% portfolio drop | Sell all (1), Sell some (2), Hold (3), Buy more (4) | Volatility 
Comfort 63 |
| 4 | Preferred Risk/Return Scenario (5 -yr horizon) | Low Gain/Low Loss (1), Mod Gain/Mod Loss (2), 
High Gain/High Loss (3) | Risk/Reward Trade -off 63 |
| 5 | Primary Investment Goal | Preserve Capital (1), Generate Income (2), Balanced Growth (3), 
Maximize Growth (4) | Goal Focus 63 |
   AI stock APP Page 903    
Maximize Growth (4) | Goal Focus 63 |
| 6 | Comfort level statement | Comfortable with low risk/low return (1)... Comfortable with high 
risk/high return (4) | Risk Attitude 63 |
| 7 | Importance of avoiding loss vs. achieving high returns | Avoiding loss most important (1)... High 
returns most important (4) | Loss Aversion 63 |
| 8 | Preferred Investment Mix (Low/Med/High Risk) | Mostly Low Risk (1), Balanced (2), Mostly High 
Risk (3) | Asset Allocation Pref. 69 |
| 9 | Hypothetical Gamble Choice ($1000 cash vs. % chance) | Sure $1000 (1)... 5% chance at $100k (4) | 
Risk Seeking Behavior 69 |
| 10| Feeling about potential investment loss | Very uncomfortable losing any principal (1)... 
Comfortable with significant fluctuations (4) | Emotional Tolerance 68 |
| * | (Scoring: Sum points; Map total score to profile: e.g., 10 -15=Conservative, 16 -22=Moderate, 23 -30
=Aggressive) | (Example ranges) | (Overall Profile) |
Value Rationale: This table provides a concrete structure for the risk tolerance questionnaire, 
translating research findings 63into actionable design specifications. It outlines representative 
questions, scoring logic 69, and the specific risk dimensions being assessed.65This serves as a 
clear blueprint for development, ensuring the assessment is comprehensive and grounded in 
best practices, ultimately enabling meaningful personalization of AI recommendations.
D. App Settings
This section houses standard application -level configurations and resources.
Appearance: Theme selection (Light mode / Dark mode option).11•
Notifications: A link to the dedicated Notification and Alert customization screen (detailed 
in Section VI).•
Data & Disclaimers: Information about data sources, data refresh frequency, and 
standard financial disclaimers regarding investment risk and the nature of AI 
recommendations (not financial advice).•
Support & Feedback: Links to a Help Center, Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs), contact 
information for support, and potentially a mechanism for users to submit feedback.7•
About: App version information, links to Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. •
Logout: Securely log the user out of the application. •
VIII. Seamless Journeys: Defining the App Navigation Flow
A. Primary Navigation
An intuitive and consistent navigation structure is paramount for usability.7For a mobile 
application with distinct functional areas like this one, a standard bottom tab bar is the 
recommended primary navigation pattern.7
Core Tabs: The bottom tab bar should provide direct access to the main sections of the 
app. Suggested tabs include: 
Dashboard: The user's personalized home screen. •
Markets: For stock discovery, charting, and news. •
AI Analysis: The hub for AI -driven insights and recommendations. •
Portfolio: To view and manage user holdings. •
Settings/More: Access to profile, risk assessment, app settings, and support. ••
Clarity and Consistency: Icons used in the tab bar must be universally understood or 
clearly labeled. The visual style and terminology should remain consistent across the •
   AI stock APP Page 904    
clearly labeled. The visual style and terminology should remain consistent across the 
entire application.7
B. Key User Flows
Mapping out common user journeys helps ensure transitions between sections are logical and 
efficient, minimizing required taps or clicks.7
Flow 1: Researching a Stock with AI: 
User taps 'Search' icon (on Dashboard or Markets tab).1.
Enters stock symbol/name.2.
Selects stock from results, navigating to Market Data Page.3.
Reviews chart, key stats, and news.4.
Taps 'View AI Analysis' button/link.5.
Navigates to AI Analysis Hub for that stock.6.
Explores Fundamental, Technical, Sentiment tabs and AI Recommendation.7.•
Flow 2: Adding a Portfolio Holding: 
User taps 'Portfolio' tab in bottom navigation.1.
Taps 'Add Holding' or '+' button on the Portfolio Overview screen.2.
Enters Symbol, Quantity, Purchase Price, Purchase Date in the form.3.
Taps 'Save' or 'Add'.4.
Returns to the Portfolio Overview screen, which now reflects the added holding.5.•
Flow 3: Responding to a Critical Alert: 
User receives a push notification (e.g., "AAPL price dropped below your $170 alert").1.
User taps the notification.2.
App opens, potentially navigating directly to the AAPL Market Data page or the AI 
Analysis Hub for AAPL. (Alternative: App opens to Dashboard where the alert is 
prominently displayed).3.
User reviews the relevant information (price chart, AI analysis, news).4.
User decides on next action (e.g., monitor, view portfolio, initiate trade -link out). 5.•
Flow 4: Assessing/Updating Risk Tolerance: 
User taps 'Settings' or 'More' tab in bottom navigation.1.
Selects 'Profile' or 'Risk Tolerance Assessment'.2.
Completes (or re -takes) the questionnaire. 3.
Views the calculated Risk Profile result and explanation.4.
Navigates back to Settings or other sections.5.•
These flows should be designed to feel natural and require minimal cognitive effort from the 
user.
C. Consistency and Intuitiveness
Maintaining consistency throughout the app is crucial for learnability and ease of use.
Design Language: A unified visual style (colors, typography, spacing, button styles, 
iconography) must be applied across all screens.8•
Interaction Patterns: Standard UI elements (like back buttons, modals, form inputs) 
should behave predictably everywhere in the app.•
Efficiency: Primary actions within each section should be easily discoverable and require 
minimal interaction steps.7•
The way users navigate through an application fundamentally shapes their experience. 
Confusing or inefficient navigation is a primary reason users abandon apps, especially in the 
FinTech space where clarity and control are expected.7A standard, familiar pattern like a 
bottom tab bar 7provides an immediate sense of orientation. Consistent labeling and 
   AI stock APP Page 905    
bottom tab bar 7provides an immediate sense of orientation. Consistent labeling and 
iconography reduce the cognitive load required to learn the app.7By carefully mapping out the 
steps involved in key tasks (like researching a stock or adding a holding), potential friction 
points or illogical transitions can be identified and smoothed out during the design phase. 
Ultimately, effortless navigation contributes significantly to the user's perception of the app's 
overall quality, simplicity, and trustworthiness.7
IX. Conclusion: Key Design Principles and Next Steps
A. Summary of Core Recommendations
This design blueprint outlines a user interface and experience for the AI Stock App centered on 
empowering investors through a blend of sophisticated AI analysis and intuitive design. The 
core recommendations underpinning this design are:
Prioritize Trust and Security: Implement transparent AI explanations, clear security 
messaging, biometric options, and ensure data reliability.1.
Ensure Simplicity and Clarity: Employ intuitive navigation, clear labeling, effective data 
visualization, and minimize cognitive load, especially on the dashboard.2.
Deliver Powerful Personalization: Leverage AI and user profile data (especially risk 
tolerance) to tailor insights, recommendations, and dashboard views.3.
Focus on Actionable Insights: Design data displays and AI outputs to guide users toward 
informed decisions, not just present information.4.
Guarantee Intuitive Navigation: Utilize standard patterns like a bottom tab bar and 
ensure consistent design language for a seamless user journey.5.
The detailed designs for the Dashboard, Market Data (including the crucial TradingView 
charting integration), AI Analysis Hub (with emphasis on explainability and the summary table), 
manual -entry Portfolio Management, customizable Notifications, and User Profile/Settings 
(featuring the vital Risk Tolerance Questionnaire) provide a comprehensive foundation.
B. Iterative Development and Testing
The design process should not end with this blueprint. Building a successful financial application 
requires an iterative approach involving continuous feedback and refinement.9
Usability Testing: It is strongly recommended to conduct usability testing sessions with 
representative target users (spanning the novice -to-intermediate spectrum) at key stages 
of development.7Testing prototypes and early beta versions can uncover unforeseen 
usability issues, points of confusion, or areas where the design fails to meet user needs. 
Tools designed for session recording or interaction analysis can aid this process.14•
Feedback Incorporation: Insights gathered from user testing must be systematically 
analyzed and incorporated into subsequent design iterations.9This feedback loop is 
critical for ensuring the final product is truly user -centered and effective.•
Performance Monitoring: Post -launch, monitoring app performance, particularly the 
responsiveness of real -time data feeds and charting components, is essential.14•
C. Future Considerations
While this report focuses on the defined scope, several potential enhancements could be 
considered for future iterations:
Expanded Data: Support for additional exchanges, asset classes (e.g., ETFs, options), or 
deeper fundamental data points.•
Advanced AI Features: More sophisticated predictive models, portfolio optimization 
algorithms (beyond manual tracking), or AI -driven educational content generation.12•
Community/Social Features: Integration of social feeds, user forums, or idea sharing, •
   AI stock APP Page 906    
Community/Social Features: Integration of social feeds, user forums, or idea sharing, 
similar to platforms like StockTwits or TradingView's community aspects.3•
Educational Resources: Adding integrated learning modules or contextual help to further 
support beginner investors.12•
D. Call to Action
This detailed UI/UX design blueprint provides a robust and well -researched foundation for the 
development of the AI Stock App. By adhering to the principles of trust, clarity, personalization, 
actionability, and intuitive navigation, and by committing to an iterative, user -focused 
development process, the resulting application has the potential to effectively meet the needs 
of its target users and establish a strong position in the competitive FinTech landscape.
   AI stock APP Page 907    
Okay, I understand you'd like visual representations of the app pages based on the design 
blueprint. Since I can't create actual image files, I will provide detailed descriptions for each key 
screen, outlining what the image would depict based on our previous discussion and the design 
principles we established.
Image Description: Main Dashboard/Home Page
This image would show the main screen of the mobile app, likely with a clean, modern aesthetic 
(potentially a dark theme option available).1 At the top, compact widgets display real -time 
changes for major market indices (e.g., S&P 500, NASDAQ).1 Below this, a prominent card 
clearly shows the user's total portfolio value, along with the day's gain or loss in both currency 
and percentage, possibly with color -coding (green/red).4 A distinct, easily noticeable section 
near the top highlights 1 -2 critical, unread alerts (e.g., significant price movement in a 
holding).7 Smaller cards or list items might show the top movers from the user's watchlist 9 and 
a dynamic snippet featuring a personalized AI insight (e.g., "Sentiment for AAPL turned 
positive") with a link to explore further.10 A standard bottom navigation bar with clear icons for 
"Dashboard," "Markets," "AI Analysis," "Portfolio," and "Settings" is visible.8 The overall 
impression is one of immediate, personalized information access.
Image Description: Market Data -Stock Search/Discovery Page
This image depicts the stock discovery section. A prominent search bar is featured at the top, 
perhaps with a placeholder like "Search symbol or company name".8 Below the search bar, 
dynamic lists showcase "Top Gainers" and "Top Losers" for the day, each entry showing the 
ticker, name, price, and percentage change.3 There might be selectable tabs or buttons 
allowing users to browse stocks by market sectors (e.g., Technology, Healthcare, Finance).3 The 
design is uncluttered, focusing on facilitating quick exploration and finding specific stocks.
Image Description: Market Data -Stock Detail Page
This image shows the detailed view for a single stock (e.g., AAPL). The header prominently 
displays the company name ("Apple Inc."), ticker ("AAPL"), current price, and the day's change 
(e.g., "+2.50(+1.30
∗∗ImageDescription:AIAnalysisHub(ConceptualOverview) ∗∗Thisimageprovidesahigh −levelview
oftheAIAnalysissectionforaspecificstock.Itfeaturesaclearheaderindicatingthestockbeinganalyzed
.Themaincontentareaisorganizedusingtabslabeled"Summary,""Fundamental,""Technical,"and"S
entiment".[29,30]Theactivetab(e.g.,"Summary")
ishighlighted.Thedesignemphasizesclarity,usingcardsordistinctsectionswithinthetabtopresentdif
ferentAI−driveninsights,ensuringcomplexinformationisbrokendownintodigestibleparts.[12,31,3
2,16,33,34,35,36,37,38,39,40,41,11,42,43,44,45,46,24,47,48,30,49,50,51,52,53,54,55,56] ∗∗Ima
geDescription:AIAnalysis −FundamentalTab ∗∗Thisimageshowsthe"Fundamental"tabwithintheAI
AnalysisHub.Itdisplayskeyfinancialratios(P/E,P/B,P/S,ROE,Debt −to−Equity)
inacleanlistorgridformat.[30,8]
Someratiosmightbeaccompaniedbysmallvisualindicatorslikegaugesorcomparisonstoindustryave
rages(e.g.,"P/ERatio:25.5(IndustryAvg:28.0)").Aseparatesectionfeaturesconcise,AI −generatedsu
mmariespresentedasbulletpoints,labeledclearly(e.g.,"LatestEarningsCallSummary,""SECFilingKe
yPoints").[57,58] ∗∗ImageDescription:AIAnalysis −TechnicalTab ∗∗Thisimagedisplaysthe"Technic
al"analysistab.Itfeaturesastockchart,perhapssimplerthanthemainmarketdatachart,withspecifict
echnicalpatternshighlightedvisually –
forexample,aMovingAverageCrossoverclearlymarkedwitharrowsorlabels.[11,28]
AnotherchartsectionshowstheAI −generatedpriceforecast,depictedasadottedlineextendingfrom
theendofthehistoricalpriceline,flankedbyshadedconfidencebandsindicatingtherangeofuncertain
ty.[59,60]Atextlabelclarifiestheforecastperiod(e.g.,"30 −DayPriceForecast").
∗∗ImageDescription:AIAnalysis −SentimentTab ∗∗Thisimageshowsthe"Sentiment"analysistab.Ap
rominentvisualelement,likeaspeedometer −stylegaugeorasimplecoloredbar,indicatesthecurrent
overallsentimentscore(e.g.,"Positive,""Neutral,""Negative").[61,62,63]
Alinechartbelowtracksthesentimentscore ′strendoverthepastmonthorquarter.[42,63]
Apiechartorbarchartvisualizesthesentimentbreakdownbysource(e.g.,60
∗∗ImageDescription:AIAnalysis −Recommendation/SummaryTab ∗∗Thisimagedepictsthe"Summ
ary"or"Recommendation"tab,consolidatingtheAIanalysis.Aclear,boldlabelstatesthefinalAIrecom
mendation(e.g.," ∗∗StrongBuy ∗∗")accompaniedbyaconfidencelevel(e.g.,"Confidence:High").[28]
TheAIAnalysisSummaryTable(asdesignedintheblueprint)
isdisplayedprominently,summarizingfindingsacrossFundamental,Technical,andSentimentareas.[
29,7,30]
Belowthis,atextboxprovidesaconcise,human −readablejustificationfortherecommendation(e.g.,
"Justification:Positivesentimenttrend,improvingP/Eratio,andrecentbullishtechnicalpattern...").[
10]Anoteexplicitlylinkstherecommendationtotheuser ′sriskprofile(e.g.," ote:Alignswithyour′
AggressiveGrowth′
riskprofile").[31,44] ∗∗ImageDescription:PortfolioManagement −OverviewPage ∗∗Thisimagesho
wstheuser ′
sportfoliooverview.Thetopsectiondisplayskeymetricsinlargefont:"TotalPortfolioValue,""Day′
sGain/Loss,"and"TotalGain/Loss,"withappropriatecurrencysymbolsandpercentagechanges(color
−coded).[4,5,6]Belowthis,alineorareachartvisualizestheportfolio ′
svaluetrendoveraselectabletimeperiod(1D,1W,1M,YTD,All).[30,8]
Anallocationsectionusesadonutchartortreemaptoshowtheportfolio′
scompositionbystock.[32,53]
Themainpartofthescreenisascrollabletableorlistdetailingeachholding:Symbol,Quantity,CurrentPr
ice,CurrentValue,TotalGain/Loss( and %).9 A floating action button or a clear button labeled "+ 
Add Transaction" is visible.8
Image Description: Portfolio Management -Add Transaction Form
This image displays a clean, simple form, possibly as a modal overlay or a dedicated page, for 
adding a transaction. It features input fields clearly labeled: "Stock Symbol" (with a search icon), 
"Action" (with 'Buy' and 'Sell' toggle buttons or a dropdown), "Quantity," "Price Per Share," and 
 Main Navigation Pages
DashboardPage –Overview with portfolio value, index widgets, and alerts 1.
MarketsPage –Stock search/discovery, top gainers/losers, sector filters 2.
AIAnalysisPage –Tabs for insights: Summary, Fundamental, Technical, Sentiment 3.
PortfolioPage –Portfolio overview, holdings, and allocation visualizations 4.
SettingsPage –General app settings, appearance, risk profile, support 5.
 Stock & AI Analysis Detail Pages
StockDetailPage –Single stock view: ticker, price, charts, AI insights link 6.
AISummaryTab –AI recommendation, reasoning, alignment with risk profile 7.
AIFundamentalTab –Ratios with comparisons and summaries 8.
AITechnicalTab –Charts, patterns, and AI -generated forecasts 9.
AISentimentTab –Sentiment gauge, trend chart, and breakdown by source 10.
 Portfolio & Transaction Pages
PortfolioOverviewPage –Portfolio stats and composition 11.
TransactionFormPage –Form to add/edit transactions 12.
 Notifications Pages
StartupAlertModal –Modal alert when app launches 13.
PushNotificationExample –External notification UI (lock screen) 14.
NotificationCenterPage –In-app alert history and filtering 15.
  Se ngs & Personaliza on Pages
AccountSecurityPage 16.
NotificationPreferencesPage 17.
AppearanceSettingsPage 18.
InvestmentProfilePage 19.
RiskQuestionnairePage –Multi -step quiz for risk tolerance 20.Design
Wednesday, April 23, 2025 2:56 PM
   AI stock APP Page 908    
Add Transaction" is visible.8
Image Description: Portfolio Management -Add Transaction Form
This image displays a clean, simple form, possibly as a modal overlay or a dedicated page, for 
adding a transaction. It features input fields clearly labeled: "Stock Symbol" (with a search icon), 
"Action" (with 'Buy' and 'Sell' toggle buttons or a dropdown), "Quantity," "Price Per Share," and 
"Transaction Date" (with a calendar icon to open a date picker).8 A prominent "Save 
Transaction" or "Add" button is at the bottom. The design prioritizes ease and speed of manual 
entry.
Image Description: Notifications -Startup Alert Example
This image shows the app interface immediately after launch. Overlaid on the dimmed main 
dashboard is a modal alert box.7 The alert box has a title like "Important Alerts" and displays 
1-2 concise notification messages, such as "Price Alert: MSFT crossed $450" or "AI Update: New 
'Sell' recommendation for TSLA." Buttons like "View Details" (linking to the relevant stock or 
alert center) and "Dismiss" are clearly visible at the bottom of the modal.
Image Description: Notifications -Push Notification Example
This image simulates a smartphone's lock screen or notification panel. A notification banner 
from the "AI Stock App" is visible.4 The notification text is brief and informative, for example: 
"AI Stock App: GOOGL sentiment shows significant positive shift" or "Price Alert: AMZN 
dropped below $180." The app's icon is displayed alongside the text.
Image Description: Notifications -In-App Notification Center
This image shows a dedicated screen titled "Notifications" or "Alert History." It displays a 
chronological list of past notifications received within the app.8 Each list item might have an 
icon indicating the alert type (price, AI, portfolio), the core message (e.g., "AAPL price target 
hit," "New AI analysis available for NVDA"), and a timestamp (e.g., "2 hours ago," "Yesterday"). 
The list is scrollable, allowing users to review older alerts.
Image Description: Settings -Main Page
This image depicts the main Settings screen, presented as a clean list view.8 List items include 
options like: "Account Security" (with a lock icon), "Investment Profile & Risk Tolerance" (with a 
profile icon), "Notification Settings" (with a bell icon), "Appearance" (perhaps with a toggle for 
Light/Dark mode), "Help & Support," "About," and a "Logout" button at the bottom.
Image Description: Settings -Risk Tolerance Questionnaire Example
This image shows one screen within the multi -step risk tolerance questionnaire.65 A progress 
indicator at the top shows the current step (e.g., "Question 4 of 10"). The question is clearly 
stated, for example: "How would you react if your investment portfolio lost 15% of its value in a 
single month?" Below the question are multiple -choice radio buttons with options like: "Sell all 
investments," "Sell some investments," "Hold and wait for recovery," "Buy more investments." 
Buttons for "Next" and possibly "Previous" are at the bottom. The design is simple and focused 
to avoid distraction during the assessment.AccountSecurityPage 16.
NotificationPreferencesPage 17.
AppearanceSettingsPage 18.
InvestmentProfilePage 19.
RiskQuestionnairePage –Multi -step quiz for risk tolerance 20.
   AI stock APP Page 909    
Using AI for stock analysis and recommendations can be highly effective, especially with advancements 
in machine learning, big data, and predictive analytics. Here’s how you can leverage AI:
1. Data Collection and Preprocessing
Sources: Stock market APIs (e.g., Yahoo Finance, Alpha Vantage, IEX Cloud), financial news, 
earnings reports, SEC filings, social media sentiment (Twitter, Reddit).•
Preprocessing: Clean data, remove noise, handle missing values, normalize financial indicators. •
2. Fundamental Analysis with AI
Use NLP (Natural Language Processing) to analyze earnings reports, financial news, and sentiment 
from articles and social media.•
AI models like GPT and BERT can summarize SEC filings and investor calls to detect bullish or 
bearish signals.•
Extract key ratios: P/E, P/B, debt -to-equity, ROE, profit margins using automated scripts. •
3. Technical Analysis with AI
Pattern Recognition: AI can detect technical patterns like head & shoulders, triangles, moving 
average crossovers.•
Time -Series Forecasting: Using LSTMs (Long Short -Term Memory networks) or ARIMA to predict 
future stock prices based on historical trends.•
Reinforcement Learning: AI can optimize trading strategies based on trial and error. •
4. Sentiment Analysis
Train models using social media, news sentiment, and financial reports to gauge investor mood. •
Track trends on Reddit (r/WallStreetBets), Twitter, and Bloomberg for sudden market shifts. •
5. Portfolio Optimization
AI can balance risk and reward using Modern Portfolio Theory (MPT) and Monte Carlo 
simulations .•
Robo -Advisors (e.g., Wealthfront, Betterment) use AI for dynamic portfolio management. •
6. Automated Trading & Backtesting
Use AI-driven trading bots (e.g., Trade Ideas, AlgoTrader) to execute trades based on predefined 
rules.•
Backtesting: AI can simulate strategies using past data before deploying real capital. •
7. Stock Recommendations
AI-based stock screeners (e.g., Zacks, Finviz) filter stocks based on AI -generated insights. •
Custom AI models using machine learning algorithms (XGBoost, Random Forest, Neural Networks) 
to generate buy/sell signals.•
How to Get Started?
Learn AI & ML Basics: Python, Pandas, NumPy, Scikit -learn, TensorFlow, PyTorch. 1.
Use APIs for Stock Data: Yahoo Finance, Alpha Vantage, IEX Cloud. 2.
Develop Predictive Models: Use historical stock data to train ML models. 3.
Test Strategies: Backtest your models before live trading. 4.
Automate Execution: Use brokers like Interactive Brokers for AI -driven trading. 5.AI 
Thursday, February 27, 2025 10:26 AM
   AI stock APP Page 910    
Book List: 
Historically Significant Classics (but may no longer be relevant)
The Intelligent Investor -1949 (updated 2009) -Ben Graham •
One Up On Wall Street -1989 (updated 2012) -Peter Lynch •
Security Analysis -1934 (updated 2008) -Benjamin Graham, David Dodd •
Light General Reading (Stories about the markets, the people, and 
history)
In Pursuit of the Perfect Portfolio -2021 (updated 2023) -Andrew Lo, Stephen R. Foerster •
Market Wizards -1989 (updated 2016) -Jack Schwager •
New Market Wizards -1992 (Updated 2012) -Jack Schwager •
Hedge Fund Market Wizards -2012 -Jack Schwager •
The Super Traders -1995 -Alan Rubenfeld •
Reminiscences of a Stock Operator -1923 (updated 2021) -Edwin LeFevre •
When Genius Failed -2001 -Roger Lowenstein •
The Myth Of The Rational Market -2009 (updated 2011) -Justin Fox •
Liar's Poker -1986 (updated 2014) -Michael Lewis •
General Introduction
The Little Book of Common Sense Investing -2007 (updated 2017) -John Bogle •
A Random Walk Down Wall Street -1973 (updated 2023) -Burton Malkiel •
The Boglehead Guide to Investing -2006 (updated 2013) -Larimore, Lindauer, LeBoeuf •
Four Pillars of Investing -2002 (updated 2010) William Bernstein •
The Investor's Manifesto -2009 (updated 2012) -William Bernstein •
General Intermediate
Lifecycle Investing -2010 -Ian Ayres, Barry Nalebuff •
Intelligent Asset Allocator -2000 (updated 2017) -William Bernstein •
A History of Interest Rates -1963 (updated 2011) -Sidney Homer, Richard Sylla •
How Markets Fail -2009 (updated 2013) -John Cassidy •
Alchemy of finance -1987 (updated 2003) -George Soros •
The Most Important Thing -2011 (updated 2018) Howard Marks •
Manual of Ideas -2013 -John Mihaljevic •
Fundamental Analysis Introduction
Financial Statements -1998 (updated 2020) Thomas Ittelson •
How to Read a Financial Report -1980 (updated 2020) -John Tracy, Tage Tracy •
Intermediate Fundamental Analysis
Investment Valuation -2002 (updated 2025) -Aswath Damodaran •
Expectations Investing -2003 (updated 2021) -Alfred Rappaport, Michael J. Mauboussin •
What Works On Wall Street -1997 (updated 2011) -James O'Shaughnessey •
Accounting for Value•
Value Investing from Graham to Buffett and Beyond -2001 (updated 2020) -Bruce C. Greenwald, Judd 
Kahn, Erin Bellissimo, Mark A. Cooper, Tano Santos•
Investment Banking -2009 (updated 2020) -Joshua Pearl, Joshua Rosenbaum •
What's Behind the Numbers -2012 -John Del Vecchio, Tom Jacobs •
Common stocks and uncommon profits -Philip Fisher •
Contrarian Investment Strategies -2012 -David Dreman •
Financial Statement Analysis and Security Valuation -2000 (updated 2012) -Stephen H. Penman •Reading Materials
Wednesday, February 26, 2025 4:14 PM
   AI stock APP Page 911    
Financial Statement Analysis and Security Valuation -2000 (updated 2012) -Stephen H. Penman •
Fixed Income
Fixed Income Seecurities -Tools for Today's Markets -(2011 3rd Edition) -Bruce Tuckman, Angela 
Serrat•
The Handbook of Fixed Income Securities -(2012 8th Edition) -Frank Fabozzi, Steven Mann •
The Treasury Bond Basis -(2005 3rd Edition) -Galen Burghardt, Terry Belton •
Options and Derivatives
Options As A Strategic Investment -2012 (Fifth Edition) -Lawrence G. McMillan •
Options, Futures, and Other Derivatives -(2021 11th Edition) -John Hull -Note: Link is to 10th Edition 
but the 11th is now available.•
Option Trading -2010 (updated 2015) -Euan Sinclair •
Option Volatility And Pricing -1988 (updated 2014) -Sheldon Natenberg •
Market Microstructures
Trading and Exchanges -2003 -Larry Harris •
Trades, Quotes and Prices -2018 -Jean -Philippe Bouchaud, Julius Bonart, Jonathan Donier, Martin 
Gould•
Quantitative Strategies Introduction
Options, Futures, and Other Derivatives -2008 (updated 2018) -John Hull •
Quantitative Strategies Intermediate
Your Complete Guide to Factor Investing -2016 -Andrew L. Berkin, Larry E. Swedroe •
Quantitative Strategies for Achieving Alpha -2008 -Richard Tortoriello •
Quantitative Value•
Quantitative Momentum -2016 -Wesley R. Gray, Jack R. Vogel •
Expected Returns -2011 -Antti Ilmanen, Clifford Asness •
Asset Management -2014 -Andrew Ang •
Paul Wilmott on Quantitative Finance -2000 (updated 2013) -Paul Wilmott •
Arbitrage Theory in Continuous Time -Björk •
Quantitative Equity Portfolio Management -Ludwig B. Chincarini, Daehwan Kim •
Quantitative Equity Investing -2010 -Frank J. Fabozzi, Sergio M. Focardi, Petter N. Kolm, Joseph A. 
Cerniglia•
Other reading liss
Big list of books
Annual Berkshire Hathaway Shareholder Letters
Original Discussion Threads
Recent Discussion -2021
Favorite Books in 2017
Favorite Books in 2013
   AI stock APP Page 912    
